<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 7</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VII</h2>
    <p>
      The appearance of Miss Lucy Morgan the next day, as she sat in George&rsquo;s
      fast cutter, proved so charming that her escort was stricken to soft words
      instantly, and failed to control a poetic impulse. Her rich little hat was
      trimmed with black fur; her hair was almost as dark as the fur; a great
      boa of black fur was about her shoulders; her hands were vanished into a
      black muff; and George&rsquo;s laprobe was black. &ldquo;You look like&mdash;&rdquo; he
      said. &ldquo;Your face looks like&mdash;it looks like a snowflake on a lump of
      coal. I mean a&mdash;a snowflake that would be a rose-leaf, too!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps you&rsquo;d better look at the reins,&rdquo; she returned. &ldquo;We almost upset
      just then.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George declined to heed this advice. &ldquo;Because there&rsquo;s too much pink in
      your cheeks for a snowflake,&rdquo; he continued. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s that fairy story about
      snow-white and rose-red&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We&rsquo;re going pretty fast, Mr. Minafer!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, you see, I&rsquo;m only here for two weeks.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean the sleigh!&rdquo; she explained. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re not the only people on the
      street, you know.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, they&rsquo;ll keep out of the way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s very patrician charioteering, but it seems to me a horse like this
      needs guidance. I&rsquo;m sure he&rsquo;s going almost twenty miles an hour.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s nothing,&rdquo; said George; but he consented to look forward again. &ldquo;He
      can trot under three minutes, all right.&rdquo; He laughed. &ldquo;I suppose your
      father thinks he can build a horseless carriage to go that fast!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They go that fast already, sometimes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said George; &ldquo;they do&mdash;for about a hundred feet! Then they
      give a yell and burn up.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Evidently she decided not to defend her father&rsquo;s faith in horseless
      carriages, for she laughed, and said nothing. The cold air was
      polka-dotted with snowflakes, and trembled to the loud, continuous
      jingling of sleighbells. Boys and girls, all aglow and panting jets of
      vapour, darted at the passing sleighs to ride on the runners, or sought to
      rope their sleds to any vehicle whatever, but the fleetest no more than
      just touched the flying cutter, though a hundred soggy mittens grasped for
      it, then reeled and whirled till sometimes the wearers of those daring
      mittens plunged flat in the snow and lay a-sprawl, reflecting. For this
      was the holiday time, and all the boys and girls in town were out, most of
      them on National Avenue.
    </p>
    <p>
      But there came panting and chugging up that flat thoroughfare a thing
      which some day was to spoil all their sleigh-time merriment&mdash;save for
      the rashest and most disobedient. It was vaguely like a topless surry, but
      cumbrous with unwholesome excrescences fore and aft, while underneath were
      spinning leather belts and something that whirred and howled and seemed to
      stagger. The ride-stealers made no attempt to fasten their sleds to a
      contrivance so nonsensical and yet so fearsome. Instead, they gave over
      their sport and concentrated all their energies in their lungs, so that up
      and down the street the one cry shrilled increasingly: &ldquo;Git a hoss! Git a
      hoss! Git a hoss! Mister, why don&rsquo;t you git a hoss?&rdquo; But the mahout in
      charge, sitting solitary on the front seat, was unconcerned&mdash;he
      laughed, and now and then ducked a snowball without losing any of his
      good-nature. It was Mr. Eugene Morgan who exhibited so cheerful a
      countenance between the forward visor of a deer-stalker cap and the collar
      of a fuzzy gray ulster. &ldquo;Git a hoss!&rdquo; the children shrieked, and gruffer
      voices joined them. &ldquo;Git a hoss! Git a hoss! Git a hoss!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George Minafer was correct thus far: the twelve miles an hour of such a
      machine would never over-take George&rsquo;s trotter. The cutter was already
      scurrying between the stone pillars at the entrance to Amberson Addition.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s my grandfather&rsquo;s,&rdquo; said George, nodding toward the Amberson
      Mansion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I ought to know that!&rdquo; Lucy exclaimed. &ldquo;We stayed there late enough last
      night: papa and I were almost the last to go. He and your mother and Miss
      Fanny Minafer got the musicians to play another waltz when everybody else
      had gone downstairs and the fiddles were being put away in their cases.
      Papa danced part of it with Miss Minafer and the rest with your mother.
      Miss Minafer&rsquo;s your aunt, isn&rsquo;t she?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; she lives with us. I tease her a good deal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What about?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, anything handy&mdash;whatever&rsquo;s easy to tease an old maid about.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t she mind?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She usually has sort of a grouch on me,&rdquo; laughed George. &ldquo;Nothing much.
      That&rsquo;s our house just beyond grandfather&rsquo;s.&rdquo; He waved a sealskin gauntlet
      to indicate the house Major Amberson had built for Isabel as a wedding
      gift. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s almost the same as grandfather&rsquo;s, only not as large and hasn&rsquo;t
      got a regular ballroom. We gave the dance, last night, at grandfather&rsquo;s on
      account of the ballroom, and because I&rsquo;m the only grandchild, you know. Of
      course, some day that&rsquo;ll be my house, though I expect my mother will most
      likely go on living where she does now, with father and Aunt Fanny. I
      suppose I&rsquo;ll probably build a country house, too&mdash;somewhere East, I
      guess.&rdquo; He stopped speaking, and frowned as they passed a closed carriage
      and pair. The body of this comfortable vehicle sagged slightly to one
      side; the paint was old and seamed with hundreds of minute cracks like
      little rivers on a black map; the coachman, a fat and elderly darky,
      seemed to drowse upon the box; but the open window afforded the occupants
      of the cutter a glimpse of a tired, fine old face, a silk hat, a pearl
      tie, and an astrachan collar, evidently out to take the air.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s your grandfather now,&rdquo; said Lucy. &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s frown was not relaxed. &ldquo;Yes, it is; and he ought to give that
      rat-trap away and sell those old horses. They&rsquo;re a disgrace, all shaggy&mdash;not
      even clipped. I suppose he doesn&rsquo;t notice it&mdash;people get awful funny
      when they get old; they seem to lose their self-respect, sort of.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He seemed a real Brummell to me,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, he keeps up about what he wears, well enough, but&mdash;well, look at
      that!&rdquo; He pointed to a statue of Minerva, one of the cast-iron sculptures
      Major Amberson had set up in opening the Addition years before. Minerva
      was intact, but a blackish streak descended unpleasantly from her forehead
      to the point of her straight nose, and a few other streaks were sketched
      in a repellent dinge upon the folds of her drapery.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That must be from soot,&rdquo; said Lucy. &ldquo;There are so many houses around
      here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Anyhow, somebody ought to see that these statues are kept clean. My
      grandfather owns a good many of these houses, I guess, for renting. Of
      course, he sold most of the lots&mdash;there aren&rsquo;t any vacant ones, and
      there used to be heaps of &lsquo;em when I was a boy. Another thing I don&rsquo;t
      think he ought to allow a good many of these people bought big lots and
      they built houses on &lsquo;em; then the price of the land kept getting higher,
      and they&rsquo;d sell part of their yards and let the people that bought it
      build houses on it to live in, till they haven&rsquo;t hardly any of &lsquo;em got
      big, open yards any more, and it&rsquo;s getting all too much built up. The way
      it used to be, it was like a gentleman&rsquo;s country estate, and that&rsquo;s the
      way my grandfather ought to keep it. He lets these people take too many
      liberties: they do anything they want to.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But how could he stop them?&rdquo; Lucy asked, surely with reason. &ldquo;If he sold
      them the land, it&rsquo;s theirs, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George remained serene in the face of this apparently difficult question.
      &ldquo;He ought to have all the trades-people boycott the families that sell
      part of their yards that way. All he&rsquo;d have to do would be to tell the
      trades-people they wouldn&rsquo;t get any more orders from the family if they
      didn&rsquo;t do it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;From &lsquo;the family&rsquo;? What family?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Our family,&rdquo; said George, unperturbed. &ldquo;The Ambersons.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see!&rdquo; she murmured, and evidently she did see something that he did
      not, for, as she lifted her muff to her face, he asked:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What are you laughing at now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You always seem to have some little secret of your own to get happy
      over!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Always!&rdquo; she exclaimed. &ldquo;What a big word when we only met last night!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s another case of it,&rdquo; he said, with obvious sincerity. &ldquo;One of the
      reasons I don&rsquo;t like you&mdash;much!&mdash;is you&rsquo;ve got that way of
      seeming quietly superior to everybody else.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I!&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;I have?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, you think you keep it sort of confidential to yourself, but it&rsquo;s
      plain enough! I don&rsquo;t believe in that kind of thing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; said George emphatically. &ldquo;Not with me! I think the world&rsquo;s like
      this: there&rsquo;s a few people that their birth and position, and so on, puts
      them at the top, and they ought to treat each other entirely as equals.&rdquo;
       His voice betrayed a little emotion as he added, &ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t speak like
      this to everybody.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mean you&rsquo;re confiding your deepest creed&mdash;or code, whatever it
      is&mdash;to me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go on, make fun of it, then!&rdquo; George said bitterly. &ldquo;You do think you&rsquo;re
      terribly clever! It makes me tired!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, as you don&rsquo;t like my seeming &lsquo;quietly superior,&rsquo; after this I&rsquo;ll be
      noisily superior,&rdquo; she returned cheerfully. &ldquo;We aim to please!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had a notion before I came for you today that we were going to
      quarrel,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, we won&rsquo;t; it takes two!&rdquo; She laughed and waved her muff toward a new
      house, not quite completed, standing in a field upon their right. They had
      passed beyond Amberson Addition, and were leaving the northern fringes of
      the town for the open country. &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t that a beautiful house!&rdquo; she
      exclaimed. &ldquo;Papa and I call it our Beautiful House.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George was not pleased. &ldquo;Does it belong to you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course not! Papa brought me out here the other day, driving in his
      machine, and we both loved it. It&rsquo;s so spacious and dignified and plain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, it&rsquo;s plain enough!&rdquo; George grunted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yet it&rsquo;s lovely; the gray-green roof and shutters give just enough
      colour, with the trees, for the long white walls. It seems to me the
      finest house I&rsquo;ve seen in this part of the country.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George was outraged by an enthusiasm so ignorant&mdash;not ten minutes ago
      they had passed the Amberson Mansion. &ldquo;Is that a sample of your taste in
      architecture?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. Why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Because it strikes me you better go somewhere and study the subject a
      little!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lucy looked puzzled. &ldquo;What makes you have so much feeling about it? Have I
      offended you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Offended&rsquo; nothing!&rdquo; George returned brusquely. &ldquo;Girls usually think they
      know it all as soon as they&rsquo;ve learned to dance and dress and flirt a
      little. They never know anything about things like architecture, for
      instance. That house is about as bum a house as any house I ever saw!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo; George repeated. &ldquo;Did you ask me why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, for one thing&mdash;&rdquo; he paused&mdash;&ldquo;for one thing&mdash;well,
      just look at it! I shouldn&rsquo;t think you&rsquo;d have to do any more than look at
      it if you&rsquo;d ever given any attention to architecture.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is the matter with its architecture, Mr. Minafer?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s this way,&rdquo; said George. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s like this. Well, for instance,
      that house&mdash;well, it was built like a town house.&rdquo; He spoke of it in
      the past tense, because they had now left it far behind them&mdash;a human
      habit of curious significance. &ldquo;It was like a house meant for a street in
      the city. What kind of a house was that for people of any taste to build
      out here in the country?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But papa says it&rsquo;s built that way on purpose. There are a lot of other
      houses being built in this direction, and papa says the city&rsquo;s coming out
      this way; and in a year or two that house will be right in town.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It was a bum house, anyhow,&rdquo; said George crossly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t even know the
      people that are building it. They say a lot of riffraff come to town every
      year nowadays and there&rsquo;s other riffraff that have always lived here, and
      have made a little money, and act as if they owned the place. Uncle Sydney
      was talking about it yesterday: he says he and some of his friends are
      organizing a country club, and already some of these riffraff are worming
      into it&mdash;people he never heard of at all! Anyhow, I guess it&rsquo;s pretty
      clear you don&rsquo;t know a great deal about architecture.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She demonstrated the completeness of her amiability by laughing. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll
      know something about the North Pole before long,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;if we keep
      going much farther in this direction!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this he was remorseful. &ldquo;All right, we&rsquo;ll turn, and drive south awhile
      till you get warmed up again. I expect we have been going against the wind
      about long enough. Indeed, I&rsquo;m sorry!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He said, &ldquo;Indeed, I&rsquo;m sorry,&rdquo; in a nice way, and looked very strikingly
      handsome when he said it, she thought. No doubt it is true that there is
      more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner repented than over all the saints
      who consistently remain holy, and the rare, sudden gentlenesses of
      arrogant people have infinitely more effect than the continual gentleness
      of gentle people. Arrogance turned gentle melts the heart; and Lucy gave
      her companion a little sidelong, sunny nod of acknowledgment. George was
      dazzled by the quick glow of her eyes, and found himself at a loss for
      something to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having turned about, he kept his horse to a walk, and at this gait the
      sleighbells tinkled but intermittently. Gleaming wanly through the whitish
      vapour that kept rising from the trotter&rsquo;s body and flanks, they were like
      tiny fog-bells, and made the only sounds in a great winter silence. The
      white road ran between lonesome rail fences; and frozen barnyards beyond
      the fences showed sometimes a harrow left to rust, with its iron seat half
      filled with stiffened snow, and sometimes an old dead buggy, its wheels
      forever set, it seemed, in the solid ice of deep ruts. Chickens scratched
      the metallic earth with an air of protest, and a masterless ragged colt
      looked up in sudden horror at the mild tinkle of the passing bells, then
      blew fierce clouds of steam at the sleigh. The snow no longer fell, and
      far ahead, in a grayish cloud that lay upon the land, was the town.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lucy looked at this distant thickening reflection. &ldquo;When we get this far
      out we can see there must be quite a little smoke hanging over the town,&rdquo;
       she said. &ldquo;I suppose that&rsquo;s because it&rsquo;s growing. As it grows bigger it
      seems to get ashamed of itself, so it makes this cloud and hides in it.
      Papa says it used to be a bit nicer when he lived here: he always speaks
      of it differently&mdash;he always has a gentle look, a particular tone of
      voice, I&rsquo;ve noticed. He must have been very fond of it. It must have been
      a lovely place: everybody must have been so jolly. From the way he talks,
      you&rsquo;d think life here then was just one long midsummer serenade. He
      declares it was always sunshine, that the air wasn&rsquo;t like the air anywhere
      else&mdash;that, as he remembers it, there always seemed to be gold-dust
      in the air. I doubt it! I think it doesn&rsquo;t seem to be duller air to him
      now just on account of having a little soot in it sometimes, but probably
      because he was twenty years younger then. It seems to me the gold-dust he
      thinks was here is just his being young that he remembers. I think it was
      just youth. It is pretty pleasant to be young, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo; She laughed
      absently, then appeared to become wistful. &ldquo;I wonder if we really do enjoy
      it as much as we&rsquo;ll look back and think we did! I don&rsquo;t suppose so.
      Anyhow, for my part I feel as if I must be missing something about it,
      somehow, because I don&rsquo;t ever seem to be thinking about what&rsquo;s happening
      at the present moment; I&rsquo;m always looking forward to something&mdash;thinking
      about things that will happen when I&rsquo;m older.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a funny girl,&rdquo; George said gently. &ldquo;But your voice sounds pretty
      nice when you think and talk along together like that!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The horse shook himself all over, and the impatient sleighbells made his
      wish audible. Accordingly, George tightened the reins, and the cutter was
      off again at a three-minute trot, no despicable rate of speed. It was not
      long before they were again passing Lucy&rsquo;s Beautiful House, and here
      George thought fit to put an appendix to his remark. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a funny girl,
      and you know a lot&mdash;but I don&rsquo;t believe you know much about
      architecture!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Coming toward them, black against the snowy road, was a strange
      silhouette. It approached moderately and without visible means of
      progression, so the matter seemed from a distance; but as the cutter
      shortened the distance, the silhouette was revealed to be Mr. Morgan&rsquo;s
      horseless carriage, conveying four people atop: Mr. Morgan with George&rsquo;s
      mother beside him, and, in the rear seat, Miss Fanny Minafer and the
      Honorable George Amberson. All four seemed to be in the liveliest humour,
      like high-spirited people upon a new adventure; and Isabel waved her
      handkerchief dashingly as the cutter flashed by them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For the Lord&rsquo;s sake!&rdquo; George gasped.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your mother&rsquo;s a dear,&rdquo; said Lucy. &ldquo;And she does wear the most bewitching
      things! She looked like a Russian princess, though I doubt if they&rsquo;re that
      handsome.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George said nothing; he drove on till they had crossed Amberson Addition
      and reached the stone pillars at the head of National Avenue. There he
      turned.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go back and take another look at that old sewing-machine,&rdquo; he said.
      &ldquo;It certainly is the weirdest, craziest&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He left the sentence unfinished, and presently they were again in sight of
      the old sewing-machine. George shouted mockingly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Alas! three figures stood in the road, and a pair of legs, with the toes
      turned up, indicated that a fourth figure lay upon its back in the snow,
      beneath a horseless carriage that had decided to need a horse.
    </p>
    <p>
      George became vociferous with laughter, and coming up at his trotter&rsquo;s
      best gait, snow spraying from runners and every hoof, swerved to the side
      of the road and shot by, shouting, &ldquo;Git a hoss! Git a hoss! Git a hoss!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Three hundred yards away he turned and came back, racing; leaning out as
      he passed, to wave jeeringly at the group about the disabled machine: &ldquo;Git
      a hoss! Git a hoss! Git a&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The trotter had broken into a gallop, and Lucy cried a warning: &ldquo;Be
      careful!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Look where you&rsquo;re driving! There&rsquo;s a ditch on that
      side. Look&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George turned too late; the cutter&rsquo;s right runner went into the ditch and
      snapped off; the little sleigh upset, and, after dragging its occupants
      some fifteen yards, left them lying together in a bank of snow. Then the
      vigorous young horse kicked himself free of all annoyances, and
      disappeared down the road, galloping cheerfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0008" id="link2HCH0008">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
