<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 30</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXX</h2>
    <p>
      Major Amberson remained dry-eyed through the time that followed: he knew
      that this separation from his daughter would be short, that the separation
      which had preceded it was the long one. He worked at his ledgers no more
      under his old gas drop-light, but would sit all evening staring into the
      fire, in his bedroom, and not speaking unless someone asked him a
      question. He seemed almost unaware of what went on around him, and those
      who were with him thought him dazed by Isabel&rsquo;s death, guessing that he
      was lost in reminiscences and vague dreams. &ldquo;Probably his mind is full of
      pictures of his youth, or the Civil War, and the days when he and mother
      were young married people and all of us children were jolly little things&mdash;and
      the city was a small town with one cobbled street and the others just dirt
      roads with board sidewalks.&rdquo; This was George Amberson&rsquo;s conjecture, and
      the others agreed; but they were mistaken. The Major was engaged in the
      profoundest thinking of his life. No business plans which had ever
      absorbed him could compare in momentousness with the plans that absorbed
      him now, for he had to plan how to enter the unknown country where he was
      not even sure of being recognized as an Amberson&mdash;not sure of
      anything, except that Isabel would help him if she could. His absorption
      produced the outward effect of reverie, but of course it was not. The
      Major was occupied with the first really important matter that had taken
      his attention since he came home invalided, after the Gettysburg campaign,
      and went into business; and he realized that everything which had worried
      him or delighted him during this lifetime between then and to-day&mdash;all
      his buying and building and trading and banking&mdash;that it all was
      trifling and waste beside what concerned him now.
    </p>
    <p>
      He seldom went out of his room, and often left untouched the meals they
      brought to him there; and this neglect caused them to shake their heads
      mournfully, again mistaking for dazedness the profound concentration of
      his mind. Meanwhile, the life of the little bereft group still forlornly
      centering upon him began to pick up again, as life will, and to emerge
      from its own period of dazedness. It was not Isabel&rsquo;s father but her son
      who was really dazed.
    </p>
    <p>
      A month after her death he walked abruptly into Fanny&rsquo;s room, one night,
      and found her at her desk, eagerly adding columns of figures with which
      she had covered several sheets of paper. This mathematical computation was
      concerned with her future income to be produced by the electric headlight,
      now just placed on the general market; but Fanny was ashamed to be
      discovered doing anything except mourning, and hastily pushed the sheets
      aside, even as she looked over her shoulder to greet her hollow-eyed
      visitor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;George! You startled me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon for not knocking,&rdquo; he said huskily. &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t think.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She turned in her chair and looked at him solicitously. &ldquo;Sit down, George,
      won&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. I just wanted&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I could hear you walking up and down in your room,&rdquo; said Fanny. &ldquo;You were
      doing it ever since dinner, and it seems to me you&rsquo;re at it almost every
      evening. I don&rsquo;t believe it&rsquo;s good for you&mdash;and I know it would worry
      your mother terribly if she&mdash;&rdquo; Fanny hesitated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;See here,&rdquo; George said, breathing fast, &ldquo;I want to tell you once more
      that what I did was right. How could I have done anything else but what I
      did do?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;About what, George?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;About everything!&rdquo; he exclaimed; and he became vehement. &ldquo;I did the right
      thing, I tell you! In heaven&rsquo;s name, I&rsquo;d like to know what else there was
      for anybody in my position to do! It would have been a dreadful thing for
      me to just let matters go on and not interfere&mdash;it would have been
      terrible! What else on earth was there for me to do? I had to stop that
      talk, didn&rsquo;t I? Could a son do less than I did? Didn&rsquo;t it cost me
      something to do it? Lucy and I&rsquo;d had a quarrel, but that would have come
      round in time&mdash;and it meant the end forever when I turned her father
      back from our door. I knew what it meant, yet I went ahead and did it
      because knew it had to be done if the talk was to be stopped. I took
      mother away for the same reason. I knew that would help to stop it. And
      she was happy over there&mdash;she was perfectly happy. I tell you, I
      think she had a happy life, and that&rsquo;s my only consolation. She didn&rsquo;t
      live to be old; she was still beautiful and young looking, and I feel
      she&rsquo;d rather have gone before she got old. She&rsquo;d had a good husband, and
      all the comfort and luxury that anybody could have&mdash;and how could it
      be called anything but a happy life? She was always cheerful, and when I
      think of her I can always see her laughing&mdash;I can always hear that
      pretty laugh of hers. When I can keep my mind off of the trip home, and
      that last night, I always think of her gay and laughing. So how on earth
      could she have had anything but a happy life? People that aren&rsquo;t happy
      don&rsquo;t look cheerful all the time, do they? They look unhappy if they are
      unhappy; that&rsquo;s how they look! See here&rdquo;&mdash;he faced her challengingly&mdash;&ldquo;do
      you deny that I did the right thing?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t pretend to judge,&rdquo; Fanny said soothingly, for his voice and
      gesture both partook of wildness. &ldquo;I know you think you did, George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Think I did!&rdquo; he echoed violently. &ldquo;My God in heaven!&rdquo; And he began to
      walk up and down the floor. &ldquo;What else was there to do? What, choice did I
      have? Was there any other way of stopping the talk?&rdquo; He stopped, close in
      front of her, gesticulating, his voice harsh and loud: &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you hear me?
      I&rsquo;m asking you: Was there any other way on earth of protecting her from
      the talk?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Fanny looked away. &ldquo;It died down before long, I think,&rdquo; she said
      nervously.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That shows I was right, doesn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;If I hadn&rsquo;t acted as I
      did, that slanderous old Johnson woman would have kept on with her
      slanders&mdash;she&rsquo;d still be&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; Fanny interrupted. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s dead. She dropped dead with apoplexy one
      day about six weeks after you left. I didn&rsquo;t mention it in my letters
      because I didn&rsquo;t want&mdash;I thought&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, the other people would have kept on, then. They&rsquo;d have&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; said Fanny, still averting her troubled eyes. &ldquo;Things are
      so changed here, George. The other people you speak of&mdash;one hardly
      knows what&rsquo;s become of them. Of course not a great many were doing the
      talking, and they&mdash;well, some of them are dead, and some might as
      well be&mdash;you never see them any more&mdash;and the rest, whoever they
      were, are probably so mixed in with the crowds of new people that seem
      never even to have heard of us&mdash;and I&rsquo;m sure we certainly never heard
      of them&mdash;and people seem to forget things so soon&mdash;they seem to
      forget anything. You can&rsquo;t imagine how things have changed here!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George gulped painfully before he could speak. &ldquo;You&mdash;you mean to sit
      there and tell me that if I&rsquo;d just let things go on&mdash;Oh!&rdquo; He swung
      away, walking the floor again. &ldquo;I tell you I did the only right thing! If
      you don&rsquo;t think so, why in the name of heaven can&rsquo;t you say what else I
      should have done? It&rsquo;s easy enough to criticize, but the person who
      criticizes a man ought at least to tell him what else he should have done!
      You think I was wrong!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not saying so,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You did at the time!&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;You said enough then, I think! Well,
      what have you to say now, if you&rsquo;re so sure I was wrong?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing, George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s only because you&rsquo;re afraid to!&rdquo; he said, and he went on with a
      sudden bitter divination: &ldquo;You&rsquo;re reproaching yourself with what you had
      to do with all that; and you&rsquo;re trying to make up for it by doing and
      saying what you think mother would want you to, and you think I couldn&rsquo;t
      stand it if I got to thinking I might have done differently. Oh, I know!
      That&rsquo;s exactly what&rsquo;s in your mind: you do think I was wrong! So does
      Uncle George. I challenged him about it the other day, and he answered
      just as you&rsquo;re answering&mdash;evaded, and tried to be gentler. I don&rsquo;t
      care to be handled with gloves! I tell you I was right, and I don&rsquo;t need
      any coddling by people that think I wasn&rsquo;t! And I suppose you believe I
      was wrong not to let Morgan see her that last night when he came here, and
      she&mdash;she was dying. If you do, why in the name of God did you come
      and ask me? You could have taken him in! She did want to see him. She&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Fanny looked startled. &ldquo;You think&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She told me so!&rdquo; And the tortured young man choked. &ldquo;She said&mdash;&lsquo;just
      once.&rsquo; She said &lsquo;I&rsquo;d like to have seen him&mdash;just once!&rsquo; She meant&mdash;to
      tell him good-bye! That&rsquo;s what she meant! And you put this on me, too; you
      put this responsibility on me! But I tell you, and I told Uncle George,
      that the responsibility isn&rsquo;t all mine! If you were so sure I was wrong
      all the time&mdash;when I took her away, and when I turned Morgan out&mdash;if
      you were so sure, what did you let me do it for? You and Uncle George were
      grown people, both of you, weren&rsquo;t you? You were older than I, and if you
      were so sure you were wiser than I, why did you just stand around with
      your hands hanging down, and let me go ahead? You could have stopped it if
      it was wrong, couldn&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fanny shook her head. &ldquo;No, George,&rdquo; she said slowly. &ldquo;Nobody could have
      stopped you. You were too strong, and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what?&rdquo; he demanded loudly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And she loved you&mdash;too well.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George stared at her hard, then his lower lip began to move convulsively,
      and he set his teeth upon it but could not check its frantic twitching.
    </p>
    <p>
      He ran out of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      She sat still, listening. He had plunged into his mother&rsquo;s room, but no
      sound came to Fanny&rsquo;s ears after the sharp closing of the door; and
      presently she rose and stepped out into the hall&mdash;but could hear
      nothing. The heavy black walnut door of Isabel&rsquo;s room, as Fanny&rsquo;s troubled
      eyes remained fixed upon it, seemed to become darker and vaguer; the
      polished wood took the distant ceiling light, at the end of the hall, in
      dim reflections which became mysterious; and to Fanny&rsquo;s disturbed mind the
      single sharp point of light on the bronze door-knob was like a continuous
      sharp cry in the stillness of night. What interview was sealed away from
      human eye and ear within the lonely darkness on the other side of that
      door&mdash;in that darkness where Isabel&rsquo;s own special chairs were, and
      her own special books, and the two great walnut wardrobes filled with her
      dresses and wraps? What tragic argument might be there vainly striving to
      confute the gentle dead? &ldquo;In God&rsquo;s name, what else could I have done?&rdquo; For
      his mother&rsquo;s immutable silence was surely answering him as Isabel in life
      would never have answered him, and he was beginning to understand how
      eloquent the dead can be. They cannot stop their eloquence, no matter how
      they have loved the living: they cannot choose. And so, no matter in what
      agony George should cry out, &ldquo;What else could I have done?&rdquo; and to the end
      of his life no matter how often he made that wild appeal, Isabel was
      doomed to answer him with the wistful, faint murmur:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to have-seen him. Just&mdash;just once.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A cheerful darkey went by the house, loudly and tunelessly whistling some
      broken thoughts upon women, fried food and gin; then a group of high
      school boys, returning homeward after important initiations, were heard
      skylarking along the sidewalk, rattling sticks on the fences, squawking
      hoarsely, and even attempting to sing in the shocking new voices of
      uncompleted adolescence. For no reason, and just as a poultry yard falls
      into causeless agitation, they stopped in front of the house, and for half
      an hour produced the effect of a noisy multitude in full riot.
    </p>
    <p>
      To the woman standing upstairs in the hall, this was almost unbearable;
      and she felt that she would have to go down and call to them to stop; but
      she was too timid, and after a time went back to her room, and sat at her
      desk again. She left the door open, and frequently glanced out into the
      hall, but gradually became once more absorbed in the figures which
      represented her prospective income from her great plunge in electric
      lights for automobiles. She did not hear George return to his own room.
    </p>
    <p>
      A superstitious person might have thought it unfortunate that her partner
      in this speculative industry (as in Wilbur&rsquo;s disastrous rolling-mills) was
      that charming but too haphazardous man of the world, George Amberson. He
      was one of those optimists who believe that if you put money into a great
      many enterprises one of them is sure to turn out a fortune, and therefore,
      in order to find the lucky one, it is only necessary to go into a large
      enough number of them. Altogether gallant in spirit, and beautifully game
      under catastrophe, he had gone into a great many, and the unanimity of
      their &ldquo;bad luck,&rdquo; as he called it, gave him one claim to be a
      distinguished person, if he had no other. In business he was ill fated
      with a consistency which made him, in that alone, a remarkable man; and he
      declared, with some earnestness, that there was no accounting for it
      except by the fact that there had been so much good luck in his family
      before he was born that something had to balance it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You ought to have thought of my record and stayed out,&rdquo; he told Fanny,
      one day the next spring, when the affairs of the headlight company had
      begun to look discouraging. &ldquo;I feel the old familiar sinking that&rsquo;s
      attended all my previous efforts to prove myself a business genius. I
      think it must be something like the feeling an aeronaut has when his
      balloon bursts, and, looking down, he sees below him the old home farm
      where he used to live&mdash;I mean the feeling he&rsquo;d have just before he
      flattened out in that same old clay barnyard. Things do look bleak, and
      I&rsquo;m only glad you didn&rsquo;t go into this confounded thing to the extent I
      did.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Fanny grew pink. &ldquo;But it must go right!&rdquo; she protested. &ldquo;We saw with
      our own eyes how perfectly it worked in the shop. The light was so bright
      no one could face it, and so there can&rsquo;t be any reason for it not to work.
      It simply&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, you&rsquo;re right about that,&rdquo; Amberson said. &ldquo;It certainly was a perfect
      thing&mdash;in the shop! The only thing we didn&rsquo;t know was how fast an
      automobile had to go to keep the light going. It appears that this was a
      matter of some importance.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, how fast does one have to&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To keep the light from going entirely out,&rdquo; he informed her with
      elaborate deliberation, &ldquo;it is computed by those enthusiasts who have
      bought our product&mdash;and subsequently returned it to us and got their
      money back&mdash;they compute that a motor car must maintain a speed of
      twenty-five miles an hour, or else there won&rsquo;t be any light at all. To
      make the illumination bright enough to be noticed by an approaching
      automobile, they state the speed must be more than thirty miles an hour.
      At thirty-five, objects in the path of the light begin to become visible;
      at forty they are revealed distinctly; and at fifty and above we have a
      real headlight. Unfortunately many people don&rsquo;t care to drive that fast at
      all times after dusk, especially in the traffic, or where policemen are
      likely to become objectionable.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But think of that test on the road when we&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That test was lovely,&rdquo; he admitted. &ldquo;The inventor made us happy with his
      oratory, and you and Frank Bronson and I went whirling through the night
      at a speed that thrilled us. It was an intoxicating sensation: we were
      intoxicated by the lights, the lights and the music. We must never forget
      that drive, with the cool wind kissing our cheeks and the road lit up for
      miles ahead. We must never forget it and we never shall. It cost&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But something&rsquo;s got to be done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It has, indeed! My something would seem to be leaving my watch at my
      uncle&rsquo;s. Luckily, you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The pink of Fanny&rsquo;s cheeks became deeper. &ldquo;But isn&rsquo;t that man going to do
      anything to remedy it? can&rsquo;t he try to&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He can try,&rdquo; said Amberson. &ldquo;He is trying, in fact. I&rsquo;ve sat in the shop
      watching him try for several beautiful afternoons, while outside the
      windows all Nature was fragrant with spring and smoke. He hums ragtime to
      himself as he tries, and I think his mind is wandering to something else
      less tedious&mdash;to some new invention in which he&rsquo;d take more
      interest.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you mustn&rsquo;t let him,&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;You must make him keep on trying!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, yes. He understands that&rsquo;s what I sit there for. I&rsquo;ll keep sitting!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      However, in spite of the time he spent sitting in the shop, worrying the
      inventor of the fractious light, Amberson found opportunity to worry
      himself about another matter of business. This was the settlement of
      Isabel&rsquo;s estate.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s curious about the deed to her house,&rdquo; he said to his nephew. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re
      absolutely sure it wasn&rsquo;t among her papers?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mother didn&rsquo;t have any papers,&rdquo; George told him. &ldquo;None at all. All she
      ever had to do with business was to deposit the cheques grandfather gave
      her and then write her own cheques against them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The deed to the house was never recorded,&rdquo; Amberson said thoughtfully.
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been over to the courthouse to see. I asked father if he never gave
      her one, and he didn&rsquo;t seem able to understand me at first. Then he
      finally said he thought he must have given her a deed long ago; but he
      wasn&rsquo;t sure. I rather think he never did. I think it would be just as well
      to get him to execute one now in your favour. I&rsquo;ll speak to him about it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George sighed. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;d bother him about it: the house is mine,
      and you and I understand that it is. That&rsquo;s enough for me, and there isn&rsquo;t
      likely to be much trouble between you and me when we come to settling poor
      grandfather&rsquo;s estate. I&rsquo;ve just been with him, and I think it would only
      confuse him for you to speak to him about it again. I notice he seems
      distressed if anybody tries to get his attention&mdash;he&rsquo;s a long way
      off, somewhere, and he likes to stay that way. I think&mdash;I think
      mother wouldn&rsquo;t want us to bother him about it; I&rsquo;m sure she&rsquo;d tell us to
      let him alone. He looks so white and queer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson shook his head. &ldquo;Not much whiter and queerer than you do, young
      fellow! You&rsquo;d better begin to get some air and exercise and quit hanging
      about in the house all day. I won&rsquo;t bother him any more than I can help;
      but I&rsquo;ll have the deed made out ready for his signature.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t bother him at all. I don&rsquo;t see&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You might see,&rdquo; said his uncle uneasily. &ldquo;The estate is just about as
      involved and mixed-up as an estate can well get, to the best of my
      knowledge; and I haven&rsquo;t helped it any by what he let me have for this
      infernal headlight scheme which has finally gone trolloping forever to
      where the woodbine twineth. Leaves me flat, and poor old Frank Bronson
      just half flat, and Fanny&mdash;well, thank heaven! I kept her from going
      in so deep that it would leave her flat. It&rsquo;s rough on her as it is, I
      suspect. You ought to have that deed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. Don&rsquo;t bother him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll bother him as little as possible. I&rsquo;ll wait till some day when he
      seems to brighten up a little.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Amberson waited too long. The Major had already taken eleven months
      since his daughter&rsquo;s death to think important things out. He had got as
      far with them as he could, and there was nothing to detain him longer in
      the world. One evening his grandson sat with him&mdash;the Major seemed to
      like best to have young George with him, so far as they were able to guess
      his preferences&mdash;and the old gentleman made a queer gesture: he
      slapped his knee as if he had made a sudden discovery, or else remembered
      that he had forgotten something.
    </p>
    <p>
      George looked at him with an air of inquiry, but said nothing. He had
      grown to be almost as silent as his grandfather. However, the Major spoke
      without being questioned.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It must be in the sun,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;There wasn&rsquo;t anything here but the sun
      in the first place, and the earth came out of the sun, and we came out of
      the earth. So, whatever we are, we must have been in the sun. We go back
      to the earth we came out of, so the earth will go back to the sun that it
      came out of. And time means nothing&mdash;nothing at all&mdash;so in a
      little while we&rsquo;ll all be back in the sun together. I wish&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He moved his hand uncertainly as if reaching for something, and George
      jumped up. &ldquo;Did you want anything, grandfather?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would you like a glass of water?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No&mdash;no. No; I don&rsquo;t want anything.&rdquo; The reaching hand dropped back
      upon the arm of his chair, and he relapsed into silence; but a few minutes
      later he finished the sentence he had begun:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish&mdash;somebody could tell me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The next day he had a slight cold, but he seemed annoyed when his son
      suggested calling the doctor, and Amberson let him have his own way so
      far, in fact, that after he had got up and dressed, the following morning,
      he was all alone when he went away to find out what he hadn&rsquo;t been able to
      think out&mdash;all those things he had wished &ldquo;somebody&rdquo; would tell him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Old Sam, shuffling in with the breakfast tray, found the Major in his
      accustomed easy-chair by the fireplace&mdash;and yet even the old darkey
      could see instantly that the Major was not there.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0031" id="link2HCH0031">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
