<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 31</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXI</h2>
    <p>
      When the great Amberson Estate went into court for settlement, &ldquo;there
      wasn&rsquo;t any,&rdquo; George Amberson said&mdash;that is, when the settlement was
      concluded there was no estate. &ldquo;I guessed it,&rdquo; Amberson went on. &ldquo;As an
      expert on prosperity, my career is disreputable, but as a prophet of
      calamity I deserve a testimonial banquet.&rdquo; He reproached himself bitterly
      for not having long ago discovered that his father had never given Isabel
      a deed to her house. &ldquo;And those pigs, Sydney and Amelia!&rdquo; he added, for
      this was another thing he was bitter about. &ldquo;They won&rsquo;t do anything. I&rsquo;m
      sorry I gave them the opportunity of making a polished refusal. Amelia&rsquo;s
      letter was about half in Italian; she couldn&rsquo;t remember enough ways of
      saying no in English. One has to live quite a long while to realize there
      are people like that! The estate was badly crippled, even before they took
      out their &lsquo;third,&rsquo; and the &lsquo;third&rsquo; they took was the only good part of the
      rotten apple. Well, I didn&rsquo;t ask them for restitution on my own account,
      and at least it will save you some trouble, young George. Never waste any
      time writing to them; you mustn&rsquo;t count on them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t,&rdquo; George said quietly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t count on anything.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, we&rsquo;ll not feel that things are quite desperate,&rdquo; Amberson laughed,
      but not with great cheerfulness. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll survive, Georgie&mdash;you will,
      especially. For my part I&rsquo;m a little too old and too accustomed to fall
      back on somebody else for supplies to start a big fight with life: I&rsquo;ll be
      content with just surviving, and I can do it on an eighteen-hundred-dollar&mdash;a-year
      consulship. An ex-congressman can always be pretty sure of getting some
      such job, and I hear from Washington the matter&rsquo;s about settled. I&rsquo;ll live
      pleasantly enough with a pitcher of ice under a palm tree, and black folks
      to wait on me&mdash;that part of it will be like home&mdash;and I&rsquo;ll
      manage to send you fifty dollars every now and then, after I once get
      settled. So much for me! But you&mdash;of course you&rsquo;ve had a poor
      training for making your own way, but you&rsquo;re only a boy after all, and the
      stuff of the old stock is in you. It&rsquo;ll come out and do something. I&rsquo;ll
      never forgive myself about that deed: it would have given you something
      substantial to start with. Still, you have a little tiny bit, and you&rsquo;ll
      have a little tiny salary, too; and of course your Aunt Fanny&rsquo;s here, and
      she&rsquo;s got something you can fall back on if you get too pinched, until I
      can begin to send you a dribble now and then.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s &ldquo;little tiny bit&rdquo; was six hundred dollars which had come to him
      from the sale of his mother&rsquo;s furniture; and the &ldquo;little tiny salary&rdquo; was
      eight dollars a week which old Frank Bronson was to pay him for services
      as a clerk and student-at-law. Old Frank would have offered more to the
      Major&rsquo;s grandson, but since the death of that best of clients and his own
      experience with automobile headlights, he was not certain of being able to
      pay more and at the same time settle his own small bills for board and
      lodging. George had accepted haughtily, and thereby removed a burden from
      his uncle&rsquo;s mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Amberson himself, however, had not even a &ldquo;tiny bit&rdquo;; though he got his
      consular appointment; and to take him to his post he found it necessary to
      borrow two hundred of his nephew&rsquo;s six hundred dollars. &ldquo;It makes me sick,
      George,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;But I&rsquo;d better get there and get that salary started.
      Of course Eugene would do anything in the world, and the fact is he wanted
      to, but I felt that&mdash;ah&mdash;under the circumstances&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never!&rdquo; George exclaimed, growing red. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t imagine one of the family&mdash;&rdquo;
       He paused, not finding it necessary to explain that &ldquo;the family&rdquo; shouldn&rsquo;t
      turn a man from the door and then accept favours from him. &ldquo;I wish you&rsquo;d
      take more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson declined. &ldquo;One thing I&rsquo;ll say for you, young George; you haven&rsquo;t
      a stingy bone in your body. That&rsquo;s the Amberson stock in you&mdash;and I
      like it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He added something to this praise of his nephew on the day he left for
      Washington. He was not to return, but to set forth from the capital on the
      long journey to his post. George went with him to the station, and their
      farewell was lengthened by the train&rsquo;s being several minutes late.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I may not see you again, Georgie,&rdquo; Amberson said; and his voice was a
      little husky as he set a kind hand on the young man&rsquo;s shoulder. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
      quite probable that from this time on we&rsquo;ll only know each other by letter&mdash;until
      you&rsquo;re notified as my next of kin that there&rsquo;s an old valise to be
      forwarded to you, and perhaps some dusty curios from the consulate
      mantelpiece. Well, it&rsquo;s an odd way for us to be saying good-bye: one
      wouldn&rsquo;t have thought it, even a few years ago, but here we are, two
      gentlemen of elegant appearance in a state of bustitude. We can&rsquo;t ever
      tell what will happen at all, can we? Once I stood where we&rsquo;re standing
      now, to say good-bye to a pretty girl&mdash;only it was in the old station
      before this was built, and we called it the &lsquo;depot.&rsquo; She&rsquo;d been visiting
      your mother, before Isabel was married, and I was wild about her, and she
      admitted she didn&rsquo;t mind that. In fact, we decided we couldn&rsquo;t live
      without each other, and we were to be married. But she had to go abroad
      first with her father, and when we came to say good-bye we knew we
      wouldn&rsquo;t see each other again for almost a year. I thought I couldn&rsquo;t live
      through it&mdash;and she stood here crying. Well, I don&rsquo;t even know where
      she lives now, or if she is living&mdash;and I only happen to think of her
      sometimes when I&rsquo;m here at the station waiting for a train. If she ever
      thinks of me she probably imagines I&rsquo;m still dancing in the ballroom at
      the Amberson Mansion, and she probably thinks of the Mansion as still
      beautiful&mdash;still the finest house in town. Life and money both behave
      like loose quicksilver in a nest of cracks. And when they&rsquo;re gone we can&rsquo;t
      tell where&mdash;or what the devil we did with &lsquo;em! But I believe I&rsquo;ll say
      now&mdash;while there isn&rsquo;t much time left for either of us to get
      embarrassed about it&mdash;I believe I&rsquo;ll say that I&rsquo;ve always been fond
      of you, Georgie, but I can&rsquo;t say that I always liked you. Sometimes I&rsquo;ve
      felt you were distinctly not an acquired taste. Until lately, one had to
      be fond of you just naturally&mdash;this isn&rsquo;t very &lsquo;tactful,&rsquo; of course&mdash;for
      if he didn&rsquo;t, well, he wouldn&rsquo;t! We all spoiled you terribly when you were
      a little boy and let you grow up en prince&mdash;and I must say you took
      to it! But you&rsquo;ve received a pretty heavy jolt, and I had enough of your
      disposition, myself, at your age, to understand a little of what cocksure
      youth has to go through inside when it finds that it can make terrible
      mistakes. Poor old fellow! You get both kinds of jolts together, spiritual
      and material&mdash;and you&rsquo;ve taken them pretty quietly and&mdash;well,
      with my train coming into the shed, you&rsquo;ll forgive me for saying that
      there have been times when I thought you ought to be hanged&mdash;but I&rsquo;ve
      always been fond of you, and now I like you! And just for a last word:
      there may be somebody else in this town who&rsquo;s always felt about you like
      that&mdash;fond of you, I mean, no matter how much it seemed you ought to
      be hanged. You might try&mdash;Hello, I must run. I&rsquo;ll send back the money
      as fast as they pay me&mdash;so, good-bye and God bless you, Georgie!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He passed through the gates, waved his hat cheerily from the other side of
      the iron screen, and was lost from sight in the hurrying crowd. And as he
      disappeared, an unexpected poignant loneliness fell upon his nephew so
      heavily and so suddenly that he had no energy to recoil from the shock. It
      seemed to him that the last fragment of his familiar world had
      disappeared, leaving him all alone forever.
    </p>
    <p>
      He walked homeward slowly through what appeared to be the strange streets
      of a strange city; and, as a matter of fact, the city was strange to him.
      He had seen little of it during his years in college, and then had
      followed the long absence and his tragic return. Since that he had been
      &ldquo;scarcely outdoors at all,&rdquo; as Fanny complained, warning him that his
      health would suffer, and he had been downtown only in a closed carriage.
      He had not realized the great change.
    </p>
    <p>
      The streets were thunderous; a vast energy heaved under the universal
      coating of dinginess. George walked through the begrimed crowds of
      hurrying strangers and saw no face that he remembered. Great numbers of
      the faces were even of a kind he did not remember ever to have seen; they
      were partly like the old type that his boyhood knew, and partly like types
      he knew abroad. He saw German eyes with American wrinkles at their
      corners; he saw Irish eyes and Neapolitan eyes, Roman eyes, Tuscan eyes,
      eyes of Lombardy, of Savoy, Hungarian eyes, Balkan eyes, Scandinavian eyes&mdash;all
      with a queer American look in them. He saw Jews who had been German Jews,
      Jews who had been Russian Jews, Jews who had been Polish Jews but were no
      longer German or Russian or Polish Jews. All the people were soiled by the
      smoke-mist through which they hurried, under the heavy sky that hung close
      upon the new skyscrapers; and nearly all seemed harried by something
      impending, though here and there a women with bundles would be laughing to
      a companion about some adventure of the department stores, or perhaps an
      escape from the charging traffic of the streets&mdash;and not infrequently
      a girl, or a free-and-easy young matron, found time to throw an
      encouraging look to George.
    </p>
    <p>
      He took no note of these, and, leaving the crowded sidewalks, turned north
      into National Avenue, and presently reached the quieter but no less
      begrimed region of smaller shops and old-fashioned houses. Those latter
      had been the homes of his boyhood playmates; old friends of his
      grandfather had lived here;&mdash;in this alley he had fought with two
      boys at the same time, and whipped them; in that front yard he had been
      successfully teased into temporary insanity by a. Sunday-school class of
      pinky little girls. On that sagging porch a laughing woman had fed him and
      other boys with doughnuts and gingerbread; yonder he saw the staggered
      relics of the iron picket fence he had made his white pony jump, on a
      dare, and in the shabby, stone-faced house behind the fence he had gone to
      children&rsquo;s parties, and, when he was a little older he had danced there
      often, and fallen in love with Mary Sharon, and kissed her, apparently by
      force, under the stairs in the hall. The double front doors, of
      meaninglessly carved walnut, once so glossily varnished, had been painted
      smoke gray, but the smoke grime showed repulsively, even on the smoke
      gray; and over the doors a smoked sign proclaimed the place to be a &ldquo;Stag
      Hotel.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Other houses had become boarding-houses too genteel for signs, but many
      were franker, some offering &ldquo;board by the day, week or meal,&rdquo; and some,
      more laconic, contenting themselves with the label: &ldquo;Rooms.&rdquo; One, having
      torn out part of an old stone-trimmed bay window for purposes of
      commercial display, showed forth two suspended petticoats and a pair of
      oyster-coloured flannel trousers to prove the claims of its black-and-gilt
      sign: &ldquo;French Cleaning and Dye House.&rdquo; Its next neighbour also sported a
      remodelled front and permitted no doubt that its mission in life was to
      attend cosily upon death: &ldquo;J. M. Rolsener. Caskets. The Funeral Home.&rdquo; And
      beyond that, a plain old honest four-square gray-painted brick house was
      flamboyantly decorated with a great gilt scroll on the railing of the
      old-fashioned veranda: &ldquo;Mutual Benev&rsquo;t Order Cavaliers and Dames of
      Purity.&rdquo; This was the old Minafer house.
    </p>
    <p>
      George passed it without perceptibly wincing; in fact, he held his head
      up, and except for his gravity of countenance and the prison pallor he had
      acquired by too constantly remaining indoors, there was little to warn an
      acquaintance that he was not precisely the same George Amberson Minafer
      known aforetime. He was still so magnificent, indeed, that there came to
      his ears a waft of comment from a passing automobile. This was a fearsome
      red car, glittering in brass, with half-a-dozen young people in it whose
      motorism had reached an extreme manifestation in dress. The ladies of this
      party were favourably affected at sight of the pedestrian upon the
      sidewalk, and, as the machine was moving slowly, and close to the curb,
      they had time to observe him in detail, which they did with a frankness
      not pleasing to the object of their attentions. &ldquo;One sees so many
      nice-looking people one doesn&rsquo;t know nowadays,&rdquo; said the youngest of the
      young ladies. &ldquo;This old town of ours is really getting enormous. I
      shouldn&rsquo;t mind knowing who he is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; the youth beside her said, loudly enough to be heard at a
      considerable distance. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know who he is, but from his looks I know
      who he thinks he is: he thinks he&rsquo;s the Grand Duke Cuthbert!&rdquo; There was a
      burst of tittering as the car gathered speed and rolled away, with the
      girl continuing to look back until her scandalized companions forced her
      to turn by pulling her hood over her face. She made an impression upon
      George, so deep a one, in fact, that he unconsciously put his emotion into
      a muttered word:
    </p>
    <p>
      Riffraff!
    </p>
    <p>
      This was the last &ldquo;walk home&rdquo; he was ever to take by the route he was now
      following: up National Avenue to Amberson Addition and the two big old
      houses at the foot of Amberson Boulevard; for tonight would be the last
      night that he and Fanny were to spend in the house which the Major had
      forgotten to deed to Isabel. To-morrow they were to &ldquo;move out,&rdquo; and George
      was to begin his work in Bronson&rsquo;s office. He had not come to this
      collapse without a fierce struggle&mdash;but the struggle was inward, and
      the rolling world was not agitated by it, and rolled calmly on. For of all
      the &ldquo;ideals of life&rdquo; which the world, in its rolling, inconsiderately
      flattens out to nothingness, the least likely to retain a profile is that
      ideal which depends upon inheriting money. George Amberson, in spite of
      his record of failures in business, had spoken shrewdly when he realized
      at last that money, like life, was &ldquo;like quicksilver in a nest of cracks.&rdquo;
       And his nephew had the awakening experience of seeing the great Amberson
      Estate vanishing into such a nest&mdash;in a twinkling, it seemed, now
      that it was indeed so utterly vanished.
    </p>
    <p>
      His uncle had suggested that he might write to college friends; perhaps
      they could help him to something better than the prospect offered by
      Bronson&rsquo;s office; but George flushed and shook his head, without
      explaining. In that small and quietly superior &ldquo;crowd&rdquo; of his he had too
      emphatically supported the ideal of being rather than doing. He could not
      appeal to one of its members now to help him to a job. Besides, they were
      not precisely the warmest-hearted crew in the world, and he had long ago
      dropped the last affectation of a correspondence with any of them. He was
      as aloof from any survival of intimacy with his boyhood friends in the
      city, and, in truth, had lost track of most of them. &ldquo;The Friends of the
      Ace,&rdquo; once bound by oath to succour one another in peril or poverty, were
      long ago dispersed; one or two had died; one or two had gone to live
      elsewhere; the others were disappeared into the smoky bigness of the heavy
      city. Of the brethren, there remained within his present cognizance only
      his old enemy, the red-haired Kinney, now married to Janie Sharon, and
      Charlie Johnson, who, out of deference to his mother&rsquo;s memory, had passed
      the Amberson Mansion one day, when George stood upon the front steps, and,
      looking in fiercely, had looked away with continued fierceness&mdash;his
      only token of recognition.
    </p>
    <p>
      On this last homeward walk of his, when George reached the entrance to
      Amberson Addition&mdash;that is, when he came to where the entrance had
      formerly been&mdash;he gave a little start, and halted for a moment to
      stare. This was the first time he had noticed that the stone pillars,
      marking the entrance, had been removed. Then he realized that for a long
      time he had been conscious of a queerness about this corner without being
      aware of what made the difference. National Avenue met Amberson Boulevard
      here at an obtuse angle, and the removal of the pillars made the Boulevard
      seem a cross-street of no overpowering importance&mdash;certainly it did
      not seem to be a boulevard!
    </p>
    <p>
      At the next corner Neptune&rsquo;s Fountain remained, and one could still
      determine with accuracy what its designer&rsquo;s intentions had been. It stood
      in sore need of just one last kindness; and if the thing had possessed any
      friends they would have done that doleful shovelling after dark.
    </p>
    <p>
      George did not let his eyes linger upon the relic; nor did he look
      steadfastly at the Amberson Mansion. Massive as the old house was, it
      managed to look gaunt: its windows stared with the skull emptiness of all
      windows in empty houses that are to be lived in no more. Of course the
      rowdy boys of the neighbourhood had been at work: many of these haggard
      windows were broken; the front door stood ajar, forced open; and idiot
      salacity, in white chalk, was smeared everywhere upon the pillars and
      stonework of the verandas.
    </p>
    <p>
      George walked by the Mansion hurriedly, and came home to his mother&rsquo;s
      house for the last time.
    </p>
    <p>
      Emptiness was there, too, and the closing of the door resounded through
      bare rooms; for downstairs there was no furniture in the house except a
      kitchen table in the dining room, which Fanny had kept &ldquo;for dinner,&rdquo; she
      said, though as she was to cook and serve that meal herself George had his
      doubts about her name for it. Upstairs, she had retained her own
      furniture, and George had been living in his mother&rsquo;s room, having sent
      everything from his own to the auction. Isabel&rsquo;s room was still as it had
      been, but the furniture would be moved with Fanny&rsquo;s to new quarters in the
      morning. Fanny had made plans for her nephew as well as herself; she had
      found a three-room &ldquo;kitchenette apartment&rdquo; in an apartment house where
      several old friends of hers had established themselves&mdash;elderly
      widows of citizens once &ldquo;prominent&rdquo; and other retired gentry. People used
      their own &ldquo;kitchenettes&rdquo; for breakfast and lunch, but there was a
      table-d&rsquo;hote arrangement for dinner on the ground floor; and after dinner
      bridge was played all evening, an attraction powerful with Fanny. She had
      &ldquo;made all the arrangements,&rdquo; she reported, and nervously appealed for
      approval, asking if she hadn&rsquo;t shown herself &ldquo;pretty practical&rdquo; in such
      matters. George acquiesced absent-mindedly, not thinking of what she said
      and not realizing to what it committed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      He began to realize it now, as he wandered about the dismantled house; he
      was far from sure that he was willing to go and live in a &ldquo;three-room
      apartment&rdquo; with Fanny and eat breakfast and lunch with her (prepared by
      herself in the &ldquo;kitchenette&rdquo;) and dinner at the table d&rsquo;hote in &ldquo;such a
      pretty Colonial dining room&rdquo; (so Fanny described it) at a little round
      table they would have all to themselves in the midst of a dozen little
      round tables which other relics of disrupted families would have all to
      themselves. For the first time, now that the change was imminent, George
      began to develop before his mind&rsquo;s eye pictures of what he was in for; and
      they appalled him. He decided that such a life verged upon the sheerly
      unbearable, and that after all there were some things left that he just
      couldn&rsquo;t stand. So he made up his mind to speak to his aunt about it at
      &ldquo;dinner,&rdquo; and tell her that he preferred to ask Bronson to let him put a
      sofa-bed, a trunk, and a folding rubber bathtub behind a screen in the
      dark rear room of the office. George felt that this would be infinitely
      more tolerable; and he could eat at restaurants, especially as about all
      he ever wanted nowadays was coffee.
    </p>
    <p>
      But at &ldquo;dinner&rdquo; he decided to put off telling Fanny of his plan until
      later: she was so nervous, and so distressed about the failure of her
      efforts with sweetbreads and macaroni; and she was so eager in her talk of
      how comfortable they would be &ldquo;by this time to-morrow night.&rdquo; She
      fluttered on, her nervousness increasing, saying how &ldquo;nice&rdquo; it would be
      for him, when he came from work in the evenings, to be among &ldquo;nice people&mdash;people
      who know who we are,&rdquo; and to have a pleasant game of bridge with &ldquo;people
      who are really old friends of the family?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When they stopped probing among the scorched fragments she had set forth,
      George lingered downstairs, waiting for a better opportunity to introduce
      his own subject, but when he heard dismaying sounds from the kitchen he
      gave up. There was a crash, then a shower of crashes; falling tin
      clamoured to be heard above the shattering of porcelain; and over all rose
      Fanny&rsquo;s wail of lamentation for the treasures saved from the sale, but now
      lost forever to the &ldquo;kitchenette.&rdquo; Fanny was nervous indeed; so nervous
      that she could not trust her hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a moment George thought she might have been injured, but, before he
      reached the kitchen, he heard her sweeping at the fragments, and turned
      back. He put off speaking to Fanny until morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Things more insistent than his vague plans for a sofa-bed in Bronson&rsquo;s
      office had possession of his mind as he went upstairs, moving his hand
      slowly along the smooth walnut railing of the balustrade. Half way to the
      landing he stopped, turned, and stood looking down at the heavy doors
      masking the black emptiness that had been the library. Here he had stood
      on what he now knew was the worst day of his life; here he had stood when
      his mother passed through that doorway, hand-in-hand with her brother, to
      learn what her son had done.
    </p>
    <p>
      He went on more heavily, more slowly; and, more heavily and slowly still,
      entered Isabel&rsquo;s room and shut the door. He did not come forth again, and
      bade Fanny good-night through the closed door when she stopped outside it
      later.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve put all the lights out, George,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Everything&rsquo;s all right.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well,&rdquo; he called. &ldquo;Good-night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She did not go. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure we&rsquo;re going to enjoy the new little home,
      George,&rdquo; she said timidly. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll try hard to make things nice for you, and
      the people really are lovely. You mustn&rsquo;t feel as if things are altogether
      gloomy, George. I know everything&rsquo;s going to turn out all right. You&rsquo;re
      young and strong and you have a good mind and I&rsquo;m sure&mdash;&rdquo; she
      hesitated&mdash;&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure your mother&rsquo;s watching over you, Georgie.
      Good-night, dear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-night, Aunt Fanny.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His voice had a strangled sound in spite of him; but she seemed not to
      notice it, and he heard her go to her own room and lock herself in with
      bolt and key against burglars. She had said the one thing she should not
      have said just then: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure your mother&rsquo;s watching over you, Georgie.&rdquo;
       She had meant to be kind, but it destroyed his last chance for sleep that
      night. He would have slept little if she had not said it, but since she
      had said it, he could not sleep at all. For he knew that it was true&mdash;if
      it could be true&mdash;and that his mother, if she still lived in spirit,
      would be weeping on the other side of the wall of silence, weeping and
      seeking for some gate to let her through so that she could come and &ldquo;watch
      over him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He felt that if there were such gates they were surely barred: they were
      like those awful library doors downstairs, which had shut her in to begin
      the suffering to which he had consigned her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The room was still Isabel&rsquo;s. Nothing had been changed: even the
      photographs of George, of the Major, and of &ldquo;brother George&rdquo; still stood
      on her dressing-table, and in a drawer of her desk was an old picture of
      Eugene and Lucy, taken together, which George had found, but had slowly
      closed away again from sight, not touching it. To-morrow everything would
      be gone; and he had heard there was not long to wait before the house
      itself would be demolished. The very space which tonight was still
      Isabel&rsquo;s room would be cut into new shapes by new walls and floors and
      ceilings; yet the room would always live, for it could not die out of
      George&rsquo;s memory. It would live as long as he did, and it would always be
      murmurous with a tragic, wistful whispering.
    </p>
    <p>
      And if space itself can be haunted, as memory is haunted, then some time,
      when the space that was Isabel&rsquo;s room came to be made into the small
      bedrooms and &ldquo;kitchenettes&rdquo; already designed as its destiny, that space
      might well be haunted and the new occupants come to feel that some
      seemingly causeless depression hung about it&mdash;a wraith of the passion
      that filled it throughout the last night that George Minafer spent there.
    </p>
    <p>
      Whatever remnants of the old high-handed arrogance were still within him,
      he did penance for his deepest sin that night&mdash;and it may be that to
      this day some impressionable, overworked woman in a &ldquo;kitchenette,&rdquo; after
      turning out the light will seem to see a young man kneeling in the
      darkness, shaking convulsively, and, with arms outstretched through the
      wall, clutching at the covers of a shadowy bed. It may seem to her that
      she hears the faint cry, over and over:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mother, forgive me! God, forgive me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0032" id="link2HCH0032">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
