<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 26</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVI</h2>
    <p>
      George choked. For an instant he was on the point of breaking down, but he
      commanded himself, bravely dismissing the self-pity roused by her
      compassion. &ldquo;How can I help but be?&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no.&rdquo; She soothed him. &ldquo;You mustn&rsquo;t. You mustn&rsquo;t be troubled, no
      matter what happens.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s easy enough to say!&rdquo; he protested; and he moved as if to rise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just let&rsquo;s stay like this a little while, dear. Just a minute or two. I
      want to tell you: brother George has been here, and he told me everything
      about&mdash;about how unhappy you&rsquo;d been&mdash;and how you went so
      gallantly to that old woman with the operaglasses.&rdquo; Isabel gave a sad
      little laugh. &ldquo;What a terrible old woman she is! What a really terrible
      thing a vulgar old woman can be!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mother, I&mdash;&rdquo; And again he moved to rise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Must you? It seemed to me such a comfortable way to talk. Well&mdash;&rdquo;
       She yielded; he rose, helped her to her feet, and pressed the light into
      being.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the room took life from the sudden lines of fire within the bulbs
      Isabel made a deprecatory gesture, and, with a faint laugh of apologetic
      protest, turned quickly away from George. What she meant was: &ldquo;You mustn&rsquo;t
      see my face until I&rsquo;ve made it nicer for you.&rdquo; Then she turned again to
      him, her eyes downcast, but no sign of tears in them, and she contrived to
      show him that there was the semblance of a smile upon her lips. She still
      wore her hat, and in her unsteady fingers she held a white envelope,
      somewhat crumpled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now, mother&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait, dearest,&rdquo; she said; and though he stood stone cold, she lifted her
      arms, put them round him again, and pressed her cheek lightly to his. &ldquo;Oh,
      you do look so troubled, poor dear! One thing you couldn&rsquo;t doubt, beloved
      boy: you know I could never care for anything in the world as I care for
      you&mdash;never, never!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now, mother&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She released him, and stepped back. &ldquo;Just a moment more, dearest. I want
      you to read this first. We can get at things better.&rdquo; She pressed into his
      hand the envelope she had brought with her, and as he opened it, and began
      to read the long enclosure, she walked slowly to the other end of the
      room; then stood there, with her back to him, and her head drooping a
      little, until he had finished.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sheets of paper were covered with Eugene&rsquo;s handwriting.
    </p>
    <p>
      George Amberson will bring you this, dear Isabel. He is waiting while I
      write. He and I have talked things over, and before he gives this to you
      he will tell you what has happened. Of course I&rsquo;m rather confused, and
      haven&rsquo;t had time to think matters out very definitely, and yet I believe I
      should have been better prepared for what took place to-day&mdash;I ought
      to have known it was coming, because I have understood for quite a long
      time that young George was getting to dislike me more and more. Somehow,
      I&rsquo;ve never been able to get his friendship; he&rsquo;s always had a latent
      distrust of me&mdash;or something like distrust&mdash;and perhaps that&rsquo;s
      made me sometimes a little awkward and diffident with him. I think it may
      be he felt from the first that I cared a great deal about you, and he
      naturally resented it. I think perhaps he felt this even during all the
      time when I was so careful&mdash;at least I thought I was&mdash;not to
      show, even to you, how immensely I did care. And he may have feared that
      you were thinking too much about me&mdash;even when you weren&rsquo;t and only
      liked me as an old friend. It&rsquo;s perfectly comprehensible to me, also, that
      at his age one gets excited about gossip. Dear Isabel, what I&rsquo;m trying to
      get at, in my confused way, is that you and I don&rsquo;t care about this
      nonsensical gossip, ourselves, at all. Yesterday I thought the time had
      come when I could ask you to marry me, and you were dear enough to tell me
      &ldquo;sometime it might come to that.&rdquo; Well, you and I, left to ourselves, and
      knowing what we have been and what we are, we&rsquo;d pay as much attention to
      &ldquo;talk&rdquo; as we would to any other kind of old cats&rsquo; mewing! We&rsquo;d not be very
      apt to let such things keep us from the plenty of life we have left to us
      for making up to ourselves for old unhappinesses and mistakes. But now
      we&rsquo;re faced with&mdash;not the slander and not our own fear of it, because
      we haven&rsquo;t any, but someone else&rsquo;s fear of it&mdash;your son&rsquo;s. And, oh,
      dearest woman in the world, I know what your son is to you, and it
      frightens me! Let me explain a little: I don&rsquo;t think he&rsquo;ll change&mdash;at
      twenty-one or twenty-two so many things appear solid and permanent and
      terrible which forty sees are nothing but disappearing miasma. Forty can&rsquo;t
      tell twenty about this; that&rsquo;s the pity of it! Twenty can find out only by
      getting to be forty. And so we come to this, dear: Will you live your own
      life your way, or George&rsquo;s way? I&rsquo;m going a little further, because it
      would be fatal not to be wholly frank now. George will act toward you only
      as your long worship of him, your sacrifices&mdash;all the unseen little
      ones every day since he was born&mdash;will make him act. Dear, it breaks
      my heart for you, but what you have to oppose now is the history of your
      own selfless and perfect motherhood. I remember saying once that what you
      worshipped in your son was the angel you saw in him&mdash;and I still
      believe that is true of every mother. But in a mother&rsquo;s worship she may
      not see that the Will in her son should not always be offered incense
      along with the angel. I grow sick with fear for you&mdash;for both you and
      me&mdash;when I think how the Will against us two has grown strong through
      the love you have given the angel&mdash;and how long your own sweet Will
      has served that other. Are you strong enough, Isabel? Can you make the
      fight? I promise you that if you will take heart for it, you will find so
      quickly that it has all amounted to nothing. You shall have happiness,
      and, in a little while, only happiness. You need only to write me a line&mdash;I
      can&rsquo;t come to your house&mdash;and tell me where you will meet me. We will
      come back in a month, and the angel in your son will bring him to you; I
      promise it. What is good in him will grow so fine, once you have beaten
      the turbulent Will&mdash;but it must be beaten!
    </p>
    <p>
      Your brother, that good friend, is waiting with such patience; I should
      not keep him longer&mdash;and I am saying too much for wisdom, I fear.
      But, oh, my dear, won&rsquo;t you be strong&mdash;such a little short strength
      it would need! Don&rsquo;t strike my life down twice, dear&mdash;this time I&rsquo;ve
      not deserved it. Eugene.
    </p>
    <p>
      Concluding this missive, George tossed it abruptly from him so that one
      sheet fell upon his bed and the others upon the floor; and at the faint
      noise of their falling Isabel came, and, kneeling, began to gather them
      up.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you read it, dear?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s face was pale no longer, but pink with fury. &ldquo;Yes, I did.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All of it?&rdquo; she asked gently, as she rose.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She did not look at him, but kept her eyes downcast upon the letter in her
      hands, tremulously rearranging the sheets in order as she spoke&mdash;and
      though she smiled, her smile was as tremulous as her hands. Nervousness
      and an irresistible timidity possessed her. &ldquo;I&mdash;I wanted to say,
      George,&rdquo; she faltered. &ldquo;I felt that if&mdash;if some day it should happen&mdash;I
      mean, if you came to feel differently about it, and Eugene and I&mdash;that
      is if we found that it seemed the most sensible thing to do&mdash;I was
      afraid you might think it would be a little queer about&mdash;Lucy, I mean
      if&mdash;if she were your step-sister. Of course, she&rsquo;d not be even
      legally related to you, and if you&mdash;if you cared for her&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Thus far she got stumblingly with what she wanted to say, while George
      watched her with a gaze that grew harder and hotter; but here he cut her
      off. &ldquo;I have already given up all idea of Lucy,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Naturally, I
      couldn&rsquo;t have treated her father as I deliberately did treat him&mdash;I
      could hardly have done that and expected his daughter ever to speak to me
      again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel gave a quick cry of compassion, but he allowed her no opportunity
      to speak. &ldquo;You needn&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;m making any particular sacrifice,&rdquo; he said
      sharply, &ldquo;though I would, quickly enough, if I thought it necessary in a
      matter of honour like this. I was interested in her, and I could even say
      I did care for her; but she proved pretty satisfactorily that she cared
      little enough about me! She went away right in the midst of a&mdash;of a
      difference of opinion we were having; she didn&rsquo;t even let me know she was
      going, and never wrote a line to me, and then came back telling everybody
      she&rsquo;d had &lsquo;a perfectly gorgeous time!&rsquo; That&rsquo;s quite enough for me. I&rsquo;m not
      precisely the sort to arrange for that kind of thing to be done to me more
      than once! The truth is, we&rsquo;re not congenial and we&rsquo;d found that much out,
      at least, before she left. We should never have been happy; she was
      &lsquo;superior&rsquo; all the time, and critical of me&mdash;not very pleasant, that!
      I was disappointed in her, and I might as well say it. I don&rsquo;t think she
      has the very deepest nature in the world, and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Isabel put her hand timidly on his arm. &ldquo;Georgie, dear, this is only a
      quarrel: all young people have them before they get adjusted, and you
      mustn&rsquo;t let&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please!&rdquo; he said emphatically, moving back from her. &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t
      that kind. It&rsquo;s all over, and I don&rsquo;t care to speak of it again. It&rsquo;s
      settled. Don&rsquo;t you understand?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, dear&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. I want to talk to you about this letter of her father&rsquo;s.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, dear, that&rsquo;s why&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s simply the most offensive piece of writing that I&rsquo;ve ever held in my
      hands!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She stepped back from him, startled. &ldquo;But, dear, I thought&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t understand your even showing me such a thing!&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;How did
      you happen to bring it to me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your uncle thought I&rsquo;d better. He thought it was the simplest thing to
      do, and he said that he&rsquo;d suggested it to Eugene, and Eugene had agreed.
      They thought&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo; George said bitterly. &ldquo;I should like to hear what they thought!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They thought it would be the most straightforward thing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George drew a long breath. &ldquo;Well, what do you think, mother?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I thought it would be the simplest and most straightforward thing; I
      thought they were right.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well! We&rsquo;ll agree it was simple and straightforward. Now, what do
      you think of that letter itself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She hesitated, looking away. &ldquo;I&mdash;of course I don&rsquo;t agree with him in
      the way he speaks of you, dear&mdash;except about the angel! I don&rsquo;t agree
      with some of the things he implies. You&rsquo;ve always been unselfish&mdash;nobody
      knows that better than your mother. When Fanny was left with nothing, you
      were so quick and generous to give up what really should have come to you,
      and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And yet,&rdquo; George broke in, &ldquo;you see what he implies about me. Don&rsquo;t you
      think, really, that this was a pretty insulting letter for that man to be
      asking you to hand your son?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, no!&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;You can see how fair he means to be, and he didn&rsquo;t
      ask for me to give it to you. It was brother George who&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never mind that, now! You say he tries to be fair, and yet do you suppose
      it ever occurs to him that I&rsquo;m doing my simple duty? That I&rsquo;m doing what
      my father would do if he were alive? That I&rsquo;m doing what my father would
      ask me to do if he could speak from his grave out yonder? Do you suppose
      it ever occurs to that man for one minute that I&rsquo;m protecting my mother?&rdquo;
       George raised his voice, advancing upon the helpless lady fiercely; and
      she could only bend her head before him. &ldquo;He talks about my &lsquo;Will&rsquo;&mdash;how
      it must be beaten down; yes, and he asks my mother to do that little thing
      to please him! What for? Why does he want me &lsquo;beaten&rsquo; by my mother?
      Because I&rsquo;m trying to protect her name! He&rsquo;s got my mother&rsquo;s name bandied
      up and down the streets of this town till I can&rsquo;t step in those streets
      without wondering what every soul I meet is thinking of me and of my
      family, and now he wants you to marry him so that every gossip in town
      will say &lsquo;There! What did I tell you? I guess that proves it&rsquo;s true!&rsquo; You
      can&rsquo;t get away from it; that&rsquo;s exactly what they&rsquo;d say, and this man
      pretends he cares for you, and yet asks you to marry him and give them the
      right to say it. He says he and you don&rsquo;t care what they say, but I know
      better! He may not care&mdash;probably he&rsquo;s that kind&mdash;but you do. There
      never was an Amberson yet that would let the Amberson name go trailing in
      the dust like that! It&rsquo;s the proudest name in this town and it&rsquo;s going to
      stay the proudest; and I tell you that&rsquo;s the deepest thing in my nature&mdash;not
      that I&rsquo;d expect Eugene Morgan to understand&mdash;the very deepest thing
      in my nature is to protect that name, and to fight for it to the last
      breath when danger threatens it, as it does now&mdash;through my mother!&rdquo;
       He turned from her, striding up and down and tossing his arms about, in a
      tumult of gesture. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t believe it of you, that you&rsquo;d think of such a
      sacrilege! That&rsquo;s what it would be&mdash;sacrilege! When he talks about
      your unselfishness toward me, he&rsquo;s right&mdash;you have been unselfish and
      you have been a perfect mother. But what about him? Is it unselfish of him
      to want you to throw away your good name just to please him? That&rsquo;s all he
      asks of you&mdash;and to quit being my mother! Do you think I can believe
      you really care for him? I don&rsquo;t! You are my mother and you&rsquo;re an Amberson&mdash;and
      I believe you&rsquo;re too proud! You&rsquo;re too proud to care for a man who could
      write such a letter as that!&rdquo; He stopped, faced her, and spoke with more
      self-control: &ldquo;Well, what are you going to do about it, mother?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George was right about his mother&rsquo;s being proud. And even when she laughed
      with a negro gardener, or even those few times in her life when people saw
      her weep, Isabel had a proud look&mdash;something that was independent and
      graceful and strong. But she did not have it now: she leaned against the
      wall, beside his dressing-table, and seemed beset with humility and with
      weakness. Her head drooped.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What answer are you going to make to such a letter?&rdquo; George demanded,
      like a judge on the bench.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&mdash;I don&rsquo;t quite know, dear,&rdquo; she murmured.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait,&rdquo; she begged him. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m so&mdash;confused.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want to know what you&rsquo;re going to write him. Do you think if you did
      what he wants you to I could bear to stay another day in this town,
      mother? Do you think I could ever bear even to see you again if you
      married him? I&rsquo;d want to, but you surely know I just&mdash;couldn&rsquo;t!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She made a futile gesture, and seemed to breathe with difficulty. &ldquo;I&mdash;I
      wasn&rsquo;t&mdash;quite sure,&rdquo; she faltered, &ldquo;about&mdash;about it&rsquo;s being wise
      for us to be married&mdash;even before knowing how you feel about it. I
      wasn&rsquo;t even sure it was quite fair to&mdash;to Eugene. I have&mdash;I seem
      to have that family trouble&mdash;like father&rsquo;s&mdash;that I spoke to you
      about once.&rdquo; She managed a deprecatory little dry laugh. &ldquo;Not that it
      amounts to much, but I wasn&rsquo;t at all sure that it would be fair to him.
      Marrying doesn&rsquo;t mean so much, after all&mdash;not at my age. It&rsquo;s enough
      to know that&mdash;that people think of you&mdash;and to see them. I
      thought we were all&mdash;oh, pretty happy the way things were, and I
      don&rsquo;t think it would mean giving up a great deal for him or me, either, if
      we just went on as we have been. I&mdash;I see him almost every day, and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mother!&rdquo; George&rsquo;s voice was loud and stern. &ldquo;Do you think you could go on
      seeing him after this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had been talking helplessly enough before; her tone was little more
      broken now. &ldquo;Not&mdash;not even&mdash;see him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How could you?&rdquo; George cried. &ldquo;Mother, it seems to me that if he ever set
      foot in this house again&mdash;oh! I can&rsquo;t speak of it! Could you see him,
      knowing what talk it makes every time he turns into this street, and
      knowing what that means to me? Oh, I don&rsquo;t understand all this&mdash;I
      don&rsquo;t! If you&rsquo;d told me, a year ago, that such things were going to
      happen, I&rsquo;d have thought you were insane&mdash;and now I believe I am!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Then, after a preliminary gesture of despair, as though he meant harm to
      the ceiling, he flung himself heavily, face downward, upon the bed. His
      anguish was none the less real for its vehemence; and the stricken lady
      came to him instantly and bent over him, once more enfolding him in her
      arms. She said nothing, but suddenly her tears fell upon his head; she saw
      them, and seemed to be startled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, this won&rsquo;t do!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve never let you see me cry before,
      except when your father died. I mustn&rsquo;t!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And she ran from the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      ...A little while after she had gone, George rose and began solemnly to
      dress for dinner. At one stage of these conscientious proceedings he put
      on, temporarily, his long black velvet dressing-gown, and, happening to
      catch sight in his pier glass of the picturesque and medieval figure thus
      presented, he paused to regard it; and something profoundly theatrical in
      his nature came to the surface.
    </p>
    <p>
      His lips moved; he whispered, half-aloud, some famous fragments:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother, Nor customary suits of solemn
      black...&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For, in truth, the mirrored princely image, with hair dishevelled on the
      white brow, and the long tragic fall of black velvet from the shoulders,
      had brought about (in his thought at least) some comparisons of his own
      times, so out of joint, with those of that other gentle prince and heir
      whose widowed mother was minded to marry again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I have that within which passeth show; These but the trappings and
      the suits of Woe.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Not less like Hamlet did he feel and look as he sat gauntly at the dinner
      table with Fanny to partake of a meal throughout which neither spoke.
      Isabel had sent word &ldquo;not to wait&rdquo; for her, an injunction it was as well
      they obeyed, for she did not come at all. But with the renewal of
      sustenance furnished to his system, some relaxation must have occurred
      within the high-strung George. Dinner was not quite finished when, without
      warning, sleep hit him hard. His burning eyes could no longer restrain the
      lids above them; his head sagged beyond control; and he got to his feet,
      and went lurching upstairs, yawning with exhaustion. From the door of his
      room, which he closed mechanically, with his eyes shut, he went blindly to
      his bed, fell upon it soddenly, and slept&mdash;with his face full
      upturned to the light.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was after midnight when he woke, and the room was dark. He had not
      dreamed, but he woke with the sense that somebody or something had been
      with him while he slept&mdash;somebody or something infinitely
      compassionate; somebody or something infinitely protective, that would let
      him come to no harm and to no grief.
    </p>
    <p>
      He got up, and pressed the light on. Pinned to the cover of his
      dressing-table was a square envelope, with the words, &ldquo;For you, dear,&rdquo;
       written in pencil upon it. But the message inside was in ink, a little
      smudged here and there.
    </p>
    <p>
      I have been out to the mail-box, darling, with a letter I&rsquo;ve written to
      Eugene, and he&rsquo;ll have it in the morning. It would be unfair not to let
      him know at once, and my decision could not change if I waited. It would
      always be the same. I think it, is a little better for me to write to you,
      like this, instead of waiting till you wake up and then telling you,
      because I&rsquo;m foolish and might cry again, and I took a vow once, long ago,
      that you should never see me cry. Not that I&rsquo;ll feel like crying when we
      talk things over tomorrow. I&rsquo;ll be &ldquo;all right and fine&rdquo; (as you say so
      often) by that time&mdash;don&rsquo;t fear. I think what makes me most ready to
      cry now is the thought of the terrible suffering in your poor face, and
      the unhappy knowledge that it is I, your mother who put it there. It shall
      never come again! I love you better than anything and everything else on
      earth. God gave you to me&mdash;and oh! how thankful I have been every day
      of my life for that sacred gift&mdash;and nothing can ever come between me
      and God&rsquo;s gift. I cannot hurt you, and I cannot let you stay hurt as you
      have been&mdash;not another instant after you wake up, my darling boy! It
      is beyond my power. And Eugene was right&mdash;I know you couldn&rsquo;t change
      about this. Your suffering shows how deep-seated the feeling is within
      you. So I&rsquo;ve written him just about what I think you would like me to&mdash;though
      I told him I would always be fond of him and always his best friend, and I
      hoped his dearest friend. He&rsquo;ll understand about not seeing him. He&rsquo;ll
      understand that, though I didn&rsquo;t say it in so many words. You mustn&rsquo;t
      trouble about that&mdash;he&rsquo;ll understand. Good-night, my darling, my
      beloved, my beloved! You mustn&rsquo;t be troubled. I think I shouldn&rsquo;t mind
      anything very much so long as I have you &ldquo;all to myself&rdquo;&mdash;as people
      say&mdash;to make up for your long years away from me at college. We&rsquo;ll
      talk of what&rsquo;s best to do in the morning, shan&rsquo;t we? And for all this pain
      you&rsquo;ll forgive your loving and devoted mother.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0027" id="link2HCH0027">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
