<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h2>
    <p>
      Until he reached the age of twelve, Georgie&rsquo;s education was a domestic
      process; tutors came to the house; and those citizens who yearned for his
      taking down often said: &ldquo;Just wait till he has to go to public school;
      then he&rsquo;ll get it!&rdquo; But at twelve Georgie was sent to a private school in
      the town, and there came from this small and dependent institution no
      report, or even rumour, of Georgie&rsquo;s getting anything that he was thought
      to deserve; therefore the yearning still persisted, though growing gaunt
      with feeding upon itself. For, although Georgie&rsquo;s pomposities and
      impudence in the little school were often almost unbearable, the teachers
      were fascinated by him. They did not like him&mdash;he was too arrogant
      for that&mdash;but he kept them in such a state of emotion that they
      thought more about him than they did about all of the other ten pupils.
      The emotion he kept them in was usually one resulting from injured
      self-respect, but sometimes it was dazzled admiration. So far as their
      conscientious observation went, he &ldquo;studied&rdquo; his lessons sparingly; but
      sometimes, in class, he flashed an admirable answer, with a comprehension
      not often shown by the pupils they taught; and he passed his examinations
      easily. In all, without discernible effort, he acquired at this school
      some rudiments of a liberal education and learned nothing whatever about
      himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      The yearners were still yearning when Georgie, at sixteen, was sent away
      to a great &ldquo;Prep School.&rdquo; &ldquo;Now,&rdquo; they said brightly, &ldquo;he&rsquo;ll get it! He&rsquo;ll
      find himself among boys just as important in their home towns as he is,
      and they&rsquo;ll knock the stuffing out of him when he puts on his airs with
      them! Oh, but that would be worth something to see!&rdquo; They were mistaken,
      it appeared, for when Georgie returned, a few months later, he still
      seemed to have the same stuffing. He had been deported by the authorities,
      the offense being stated as &ldquo;insolence and profanity&rdquo;; in fact, he had
      given the principal of the school instructions almost identical with those
      formerly objected to by the Reverend Malloch Smith.
    </p>
    <p>
      But he had not got his come-upance, and those who counted upon it were
      embittered by his appearance upon the down-town streets driving a dog-cart
      at criminal speed, making pedestrians retreat from the crossings, and
      behaving generally as if he &ldquo;owned the earth.&rdquo; A disgusted hardware dealer
      of middle age, one of those who hungered for Georgie&rsquo;s downfall, was thus
      driven back upon the sidewalk to avoid being run over, and so far forgot
      himself as to make use of the pet street insult of the year: &ldquo;Got &lsquo;ny
      sense! See here, bub, does your mother know you&rsquo;re out?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie, without even seeming to look at him, flicked the long lash of his
      whip dexterously, and a little spurt of dust came from the hardware man&rsquo;s
      trousers, not far below the waist. He was not made of hardware: he raved,
      looking for a missile; then, finding none, commanded himself sufficiently
      to shout after the rapid dog-cart: &ldquo;Turn down your pants, you would-be
      dude! Raining in dear ole Lunnon! Git off the earth!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie gave him no encouragement to think that he was heard. The dog-cart
      turned the next corner, causing indignation there, likewise, and, having
      proceeded some distance farther, halted in front of the &ldquo;Amberson Block&rdquo;&mdash;an
      old-fashioned four-story brick warren of lawyers offices, insurance and
      realestate offices, with a &ldquo;drygoods store&rdquo; occupying the ground floor.
      Georgie tied his lathered trotter to a telegraph pole, and stood for a
      moment looking at the building critically: it seemed shabby, and he
      thought his grandfather ought to replace it with a fourteen-story
      skyscraper, or even a higher one, such as he had lately seen in New York&mdash;when
      he stopped there for a few days of recreation and rest on his way home
      from the bereaved school. About the entryway to the stairs were various
      tin signs, announcing the occupation and location of upper-floor tenants,
      and Georgie decided to take some of these with him if he should ever go to
      college. However, he did not stop to collect them at this time, but
      climbed the worn stairs&mdash;there was no elevator&mdash;to the fourth
      floor, went down a dark corridor, and rapped three times upon a door. It
      was a mysterious door, its upper half, of opaque glass, bearing no sign to
      state the business or profession of the occupants within; but overhead,
      upon the lintel, four letters had been smearingly inscribed, partly with
      purple ink and partly with a soft lead pencil, &ldquo;F. O. T. A.&rdquo; and upon the
      plaster wall, above the lintel, there was a drawing dear to male
      adolescence: a skull and crossbones.
    </p>
    <p>
      Three raps, similar to Georgie&rsquo;s, sounded from within the room. Georgie
      then rapped four times the rapper within the room rapped twice, and
      Georgie rapped seven times. This ended precautionary measures; and a
      well-dressed boy of sixteen opened the door; whereupon Georgie entered
      quickly, and the door was closed behind him. Seven boys of congenial age
      were seated in a semicircular row of damaged office chairs, facing a
      platform whereon stood a solemn, red-haired young personage with a table
      before him. At one end of the room there was a battered sideboard, and
      upon it were some empty beer bottles, a tobacco can about two-thirds full,
      with a web of mold over the surface of the tobacco, a dusty cabinet
      photograph (not inscribed) of Miss Lillian Russell, several withered old
      pickles, a caseknife, and a half-petrified section of icing-cake on a
      sooty plate. At the other end of the room were two rickety card-tables and
      a stand of bookshelves where were displayed under dust four or five small
      volumes of M. Guy de Maupassant&rsquo;s stories, &ldquo;Robinson Crusoe,&rdquo; &ldquo;Sappho,&rdquo;
       &ldquo;Mr. Barnes of New York,&rdquo; a work by Giovanni Boccaccio, a Bible, &ldquo;The
      Arabian Nights&rsquo; Entertainment,&rdquo; &ldquo;Studies of the Human Form Divine,&rdquo; &ldquo;The
      Little Minister,&rdquo; and a clutter of monthly magazines and illustrated
      weeklies of about that crispness one finds in such articles upon a
      doctor&rsquo;s ante-room table. Upon the wall, above the sideboard, was an old
      framed lithograph of Miss Della Fox in &ldquo;Wang&rdquo;; over the bookshelves there
      was another lithograph purporting to represent Mr. John L. Sullivan in a
      boxing costume, and beside it a halftone reproduction of &ldquo;A Reading From
      Horner.&rdquo; The final decoration consisted of damaged papiermache&mdash;a
      round shield with two battle-axes and two cross-hilted swords, upon the
      wall over the little platform where stood the red-haired presiding
      officer. He addressed Georgie in a serious voice:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Welcome, Friend of the Ace.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Welcome, Friend of the Ace,&rdquo; Georgie responded, and all of the other boys
      repeated the words, &ldquo;Welcome, Friend of the Ace.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take your seat in the secret semicircle,&rdquo; said the presiding officer. &ldquo;We
      will now proceed to&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Georgie was disposed to be informal. He interrupted, turning to the
      boy who had admitted him: &ldquo;Look here, Charlie Johnson, what&rsquo;s Fred Kinney
      doing in the president&rsquo;s chair? That&rsquo;s my place, isn&rsquo;t it? What you men
      been up to here, anyhow? Didn&rsquo;t you all agree I was to be president just
      the same, even if I was away at school?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well&mdash;&rdquo; said Charlie Johnson uneasily. &ldquo;Listen! I didn&rsquo;t have much
      to do with it. Some of the other members thought that long as you weren&rsquo;t
      in town or anything, and Fred gave the sideboard, why&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Kinney, presiding, held in his hand, in lieu of a gavel, and
      considered much more impressive, a Civil War relic known as a
      &ldquo;horse-pistol.&rdquo; He rapped loudly for order. &ldquo;All Friends of the Ace will
      take their seats!&rdquo; he said sharply. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m president of the F. O. T. A. now,
      George Minafer, and don&rsquo;t you forget it! You and Charlie Johnson sit down,
      because I was elected perfectly fair, and we&rsquo;re goin&rsquo; to hold a meeting
      here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, you are, are you?&rdquo; said George skeptically.
    </p>
    <p>
      Charlie Johnson thought to mollify him. &ldquo;Well, didn&rsquo;t we call this meeting
      just especially because you told us to? You said yourself we ought to have
      a kind of celebration because you&rsquo;ve got back to town, George, and that&rsquo;s
      what we&rsquo;re here for now, and everything. What do you care about being
      president? All it amounts to is just calling the roll and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The president de facto hammered the table. &ldquo;This meeting will now proceed
      to&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, it won&rsquo;t,&rdquo; said George, and he advanced to the desk, laughing
      contemptuously. &ldquo;Get off that platform.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This meeting will come to order!&rdquo; Mr. Kinney commanded fiercely.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You put down that gavel,&rdquo; said George. &ldquo;Whose is it, I&rsquo;d like to know? It
      belongs to my grandfather, and you quit hammering it that way or you&rsquo;ll
      break it, and I&rsquo;ll have to knock your head off.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This meeting will come to order! I was legally elected here, and I&rsquo;m not
      going to be bulldozed!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All right,&rdquo; said Georgie. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re president. Now we&rsquo;ll hold another
      election.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We will not!&rdquo; Fred Kinney shouted. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll have our reg&rsquo;lar meeting, and
      then we&rsquo;ll play euchre &amp; nickel a corner, what we&rsquo;re here for. This
      meeting will now come to ord&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie addressed the members. &ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to know who got up this thing in
      the first place,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Who&rsquo;s the founder of the F.O.T.A., if you
      please? Who got this room rent free? Who got the janitor to let us have
      most of this furniture? You suppose you could keep this clubroom a minute
      if I told my grandfather I didn&rsquo;t want it for a literary club any more?
      I&rsquo;d like to say a word on how you members been acting, too! When I went
      away I said I didn&rsquo;t care if you had a vice-president or something while I
      was gone, but here I hardly turned my back and you had to go and elect
      Fred Kinney president! Well, if that&rsquo;s what you want, you can have it. I
      was going to have a little celebration down here some night pretty soon,
      and bring some port wine, like we drink at school in our crowd there, and
      I was going to get my grandfather to give the club an extra room across
      the hall, and prob&rsquo;ly I could get my Uncle George to give us his old
      billiard table, because he&rsquo;s got a new one, and the club could put it in
      the other room. Well, you got a new president now!&rdquo; Here Georgie moved
      toward the door and his tone became plaintive, though undeniably there was
      disdain beneath his sorrow. &ldquo;I guess all I better do is&mdash;resign!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And he opened the door, apparently intending to withdraw.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All in favour of having a new election,&rdquo; Charlie Johnson shouted hastily,
      &ldquo;say, &lsquo;Aye&rsquo;!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye&rdquo; was said by everyone present except Mr. Kinney, who began a hot
      protest, but it was immediately smothered.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
&ldquo;All in favour of me being president instead of Fred Kinney,&rdquo; shouted
Georgie, &ldquo;say &lsquo;Aye.&rsquo; The &lsquo;Ayes&rsquo; have it!&rdquo;

 &ldquo;I resign,&rdquo; said the red-headed boy, gulping as he descended from the
platform. &ldquo;I resign from the club!&rdquo;
 </pre>
    <p>
      Hot-eyed, he found his hat and departed, jeers echoing after him as he
      plunged down the corridor. Georgie stepped upon the platform, and took up
      the emblem of office.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ole red-head Fred&rsquo;ll be around next week,&rdquo; said the new chairman. &ldquo;He&rsquo;ll
      be around boot-lickin&rsquo; to get us to take him back in again, but I guess we
      don&rsquo;t want him: that fellow always was a trouble-maker. We will now
      proceed with our meeting. Well, fellows, I suppose you want to hear from
      your president. I don&rsquo;t know that I have much to say, as I have already
      seen most of you a few times since I got back. I had a good time at the
      old school, back East, but had a little trouble with the faculty and came
      on home. My family stood by me as well as I could ask, and I expect to
      stay right here in the old town until whenever I decide to enter college.
      Now, I don&rsquo;t suppose there&rsquo;s any more business before the meeting. I guess
      we might as well play cards. Anybody that&rsquo;s game for a little
      quarter-limit poker or any limit they say, why I&rsquo;d like to have &lsquo;em sit at
      the president&rsquo;s card-table.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When the diversions of the Friends of the Ace were concluded for that
      afternoon, Georgie invited his chief supporter, Mr. Charlie Johnson, to
      drive home with him to dinner, and as they jingled up National Avenue in
      the dog-cart, Charlie asked:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What sort of men did you run up against at that school, George?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Best crowd there: finest set of men I ever met.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How&rsquo;d you get in with &lsquo;em?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie laughed. &ldquo;I let them get in with me, Charlie,&rdquo; he said in a tone
      of gentle explanation. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s vulgar to do any other way. Did I tell you
      the nickname they gave me&mdash;&lsquo;King&rsquo;? That was what they called me at
      that school, &lsquo;King Minafer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How&rsquo;d they happen to do that?&rdquo; his friend asked innocently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, different things,&rdquo; George answered lightly. &ldquo;Of course, any of &lsquo;em
      that came from anywhere out in this part the country knew about the family
      and all that, and so I suppose it was a good deal on account of&mdash;oh,
      on account of the family and the way I do things, most likely.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0004" id="link2HCH0004">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
