<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 14</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIV</h2>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Almost&rdquo; was Lucy&rsquo;s last word on the last night of George&rsquo;s vacation&mdash;that
      vital evening which she had half consented to agree upon for &ldquo;settling
      things&rdquo; between them. &ldquo;Almost engaged,&rdquo; she meant. And George,
      discontented with the &ldquo;almost,&rdquo; but contented that she seemed glad to wear
      a sapphire locket with a tiny photograph of George Amberson Minafer inside
      it, found himself wonderful in a new world at the final instant of their
      parting. For, after declining to let him kiss her &ldquo;good-bye,&rdquo; as if his
      desire for such a ceremony were the most preposterous absurdity in the
      world, she had leaned suddenly close to him and left upon his cheek the
      veriest feather from a fairy&rsquo;s wing.
    </p>
    <p>
      She wrote him a month later:
    </p>
    <p>
      No. It must keep on being almost.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isn&rsquo;t almost pretty pleasant? You know well enough that I care for you. I
      did from the first minute I saw you, and I&rsquo;m pretty sure you knew it&mdash;I&rsquo;m
      afraid you did. I&rsquo;m afraid you always knew it. I&rsquo;m not conventional and
      cautious about being engaged, as you say I am, dear. (I always read over
      the &ldquo;dears&rdquo; in your letters a time or two, as you say you do in mine&mdash;only
      I read all of your letters a time or two!) But it&rsquo;s such a solemn thing it
      scares me. It means a good deal to a lot of people besides you and me, and
      that scares me, too. You write that I take your feeling for me &ldquo;too
      lightly&rdquo; and that I &ldquo;take the whole affair too lightly.&rdquo; Isn&rsquo;t that odd!
      Because to myself I seem to take it as something so much more solemn than
      you do. I shouldn&rsquo;t be a bit surprised to find myself an old lady, some
      day, still thinking of you&mdash;while you&rsquo;d be away and away with
      somebody else perhaps, and me forgotten ages ago! &ldquo;Lucy Morgan,&rdquo; you&rsquo;d
      say, when you saw my obituary. &ldquo;Lucy Morgan? Let me see: I seem to
      remember the name. Didn&rsquo;t I know some Lucy Morgan or other, once upon a
      time?&rdquo; Then you&rsquo;d shake your big white head and stroke your long white
      beard&mdash;you&rsquo;d have such a distinguished long white beard! and you&rsquo;d
      say, &lsquo;No. I don&rsquo;t seem to remember any Lucy Morgan; I wonder what made me
      think I did?&rsquo; And poor me! I&rsquo;d be deep in the ground, wondering if you&rsquo;d
      heard about it and what you were saying! Good-bye for to-day. Don&rsquo;t work
      too hard&mdash;dear!
    </p>
    <p>
      George immediately seized pen and paper, plaintively but vigorously
      requesting Lucy not to imagine him with a beard, distinguished or
      otherwise, even in the extremities of age. Then, after inscribing his
      protest in the matter of this visioned beard, he concluded his missive in
      a tone mollified to tenderness, and proceeded to read a letter from his
      mother which had reached him simultaneously with Lucy&rsquo;s. Isabel wrote from
      Asheville, where she had just arrived with her husband.
    </p>
    <p>
      I think your father looks better already, darling, though we&rsquo;ve been here
      only a few hours It may be we&rsquo;ve found just the place to build him up. The
      doctors said they hoped it would prove to be, and if it is, it would be
      worth the long struggle we had with him to get him to give up and come.
      Poor dear man, he was so blue, not about his health but about giving up
      the worries down at his office and forgetting them for a time&mdash;if he
      only will forget them! It took the pressure of the family and all his best
      friends, to get him to come&mdash;but father and brother George and Fanny
      and Eugene Morgan all kept at him so constantly that he just had to give
      in. I&rsquo;m afraid that in my anxiety to get him to do what the doctors wanted
      him to, I wasn&rsquo;t able to back up brother George as I should in his
      difficulty with Sydney and Amelia. I&rsquo;m so sorry! George is more upset than
      I&rsquo;ve ever seen him&mdash;they&rsquo;ve got what they wanted, and they&rsquo;re sailing
      before long, I hear, to live in Florence. Father said he couldn&rsquo;t stand
      the constant persuading&mdash;I&rsquo;m afraid the word he used was &ldquo;nagging.&rdquo; I
      can&rsquo;t understand people behaving like that. George says they may be
      Ambersons, but they&rsquo;re vulgar! I&rsquo;m afraid I almost agree with him. At
      least, I think they were inconsiderate. But I don&rsquo;t see why I&rsquo;m
      unburdening myself of all this to you, poor darling! We&rsquo;ll have forgotten
      all about it long before you come home for the holidays, and it should
      mean little or nothing to you, anyway. Forget that I&rsquo;ve been so foolish!
    </p>
    <p>
      Your father is waiting for me to take a walk with him&mdash;that&rsquo;s a
      splendid sign, because he hasn&rsquo;t felt he could walk much, at home, lately.
      I mustn&rsquo;t keep him waiting. Be careful to wear your mackintosh and rubbers
      in rainy weather, and, as soon as it begins to get colder, your ulster.
      Wish you could see your father now. Looks so much better! We plan to stay
      six weeks if the place agrees with him. It does really seem to already!
      He&rsquo;s just called in the door to say he&rsquo;s waiting. Don&rsquo;t smoke too much,
      darling boy.
    </p>
    <p>
      Devotedly, your mother Isabel.
    </p>
    <p>
      But she did not keep her husband there for the six weeks she anticipated.
      She did not keep him anywhere that long. Three weeks after writing this
      letter, she telegraphed suddenly to George that they were leaving for home
      at once; and four days later, when he and a friend came whistling into his
      study, from lunch at the club, he found another telegram upon his desk.
    </p>
    <p>
      He read it twice before he comprehended its import.
    </p>
    <p>
      Papa left us at ten this morning, dearest. Mother.
    </p>
    <p>
      The friend saw the change in his face. &ldquo;Not bad news?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George lifted utterly dumfounded eyes from the yellow paper.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My father,&rdquo; he said weakly. &ldquo;She says&mdash;she says he&rsquo;s dead. I&rsquo;ve got
      to go home.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His Uncle George and the Major met him at the station when he arrived&mdash;the
      first time the Major had ever come to meet his grandson. The old gentleman
      sat in his closed carriage (which still needed paint) at the entrance to
      the station, but he got out and advanced to grasp George&rsquo;s hand
      tremulously, when the latter appeared. &ldquo;Poor fellow!&rdquo; he said, and patted
      him repeatedly upon the shoulder. &ldquo;Poor fellow! Poor Georgie!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George had not yet come to a full realization of his loss: so far, his
      condition was merely dazed; and as the Major continued to pat him,
      murmuring &ldquo;Poor fellow!&rdquo; over and over, George was seized by an almost
      irresistible impulse to tell his grandfather that he was not a poodle. But
      he said &ldquo;Thanks,&rdquo; in a low voice, and got into the carriage, his two
      relatives following with deferential sympathy. He noticed that the Major&rsquo;s
      tremulousness did not disappear, as they drove up the street, and that he
      seemed much feebler than during the summer. Principally, however, George
      was concerned with his own emotion, or rather, with his lack of emotion;
      and the anxious sympathy of his grandfather and his uncle made him feel
      hypocritical. He was not grief-stricken; but he felt that he ought to be,
      and, with a secret shame, concealed his callousness beneath an affectation
      of solemnity.
    </p>
    <p>
      But when he was taken into the room where lay what was left of Wilbur
      Minafer, George had no longer to pretend; his grief was sufficient. It
      needed only the sight of that forever inert semblance of the quiet man who
      had been always so quiet a part of his son&rsquo;s life&mdash;so quiet a part
      that George had seldom been consciously aware that his father was indeed a
      part of his life. As the figure lay there, its very quietness was what was
      most lifelike; and suddenly it struck George hard. And in that unexpected,
      racking grief of his son, Wilbur Minafer became more vividly George&rsquo;s
      father than he had ever been in life.
    </p>
    <p>
      When George left the room, his arm was about his black-robed mother, his
      shoulders were still shaken with sobs. He leaned upon his mother; she
      gently comforted him; and presently he recovered his composure and became
      self-conscious enough to wonder if he had not been making an unmanly
      display of himself. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m all right again, mother,&rdquo; he said awkwardly.
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry about me: you&rsquo;d better go lie down, or something; you look
      pretty pale.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel did look pretty pale, but not ghastly pale, as Fanny did. Fanny&rsquo;s
      grief was overwhelming; she stayed in her room, and George did not see her
      until the next day, a few minutes before the funeral, when her haggard
      face appalled him. But by this time he was quite himself again, and during
      the short service in the cemetery his thoughts even wandered so far as to
      permit him a feeling of regret not directly connected with his father.
      Beyond the open flower-walled grave was a mound where new grass grew; and
      here lay his great-uncle, old John Minafer, who had died the previous
      autumn; and beyond this were the graves of George&rsquo;s grandfather and
      grandmother Minafer, and of his grandfather Minafer&rsquo;s second wife, and her
      three sons, George&rsquo;s half-uncles, who had been drowned together in a canoe
      accident when George was a child&mdash;Fanny was the last of the family.
      Next beyond was the Amberson family lot, where lay the Major&rsquo;s wife and
      their sons Henry and Milton, uncles whom George dimly remembered; and
      beside them lay Isabel&rsquo;s older sister, his Aunt Estelle, who had died, in
      her girlhood, long before George was born. The Minafer monument was a
      granite block, with the name chiseled upon its one polished side, and the
      Amberson monument was a white marble shaft taller than any other in that
      neighbourhood. But farther on there was a newer section of the cemetery,
      an addition which had been thrown open to occupancy only a few years
      before, after dexterous modern treatment by a landscape specialist. There
      were some large new mausoleums here, and shafts taller than the
      Ambersons&rsquo;, as well as a number of monuments of some sculptural
      pretentiousness; and altogether the new section appeared to be a more
      fashionable and important quarter than that older one which contained the
      Amberson and Minafer lots. This was what caused George&rsquo;s regret, during
      the moment or two when his mind strayed from his father and the reading of
      the service.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the train, going back to college, ten days later, this regret (though
      it was as much an annoyance as a regret) recurred to his mind, and a
      feeling developed within him that the new quarter of the cemetery was in
      bad taste&mdash;not architecturally or sculpturally perhaps, but in
      presumption: it seemed to flaunt a kind of parvenu ignorance, as if it
      were actually pleased to be unaware that all the aristocratic and really
      important families were buried in the old section.
    </p>
    <p>
      The annoyance gave way before a recollection of the sweet mournfulness of
      his mother&rsquo;s face, as she had said good-bye to him at the station, and of
      how lovely she looked in her mourning. He thought of Lucy, whom he had
      seen only twice, and he could not help feeling that in these quiet
      interviews he had appeared to her as tinged with heroism&mdash;she had
      shown, rather than said, how brave she thought him in his sorrow. But what
      came most vividly to George&rsquo;s mind, during these retrospections, was the
      despairing face of his Aunt Fanny. Again and again he thought of it; he
      could not avoid its haunting. And for days, after he got back to college,
      the stricken likeness of Fanny would appear before him unexpectedly, and
      without a cause that he could trace in his immediately previous thoughts.
      Her grief had been so silent, yet it had so amazed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      George felt more and more compassion for this ancient antagonist of his,
      and he wrote to his mother about her:
    </p>
    <p>
      I&rsquo;m afraid poor Aunt Fanny might think now father&rsquo;s gone we won&rsquo;t want her
      to live with us any longer and because I always teased her so much she
      might think I&rsquo;d be for turning her out. I don&rsquo;t know where on earth she&rsquo;d
      go or what she could live on if we did do something like this, and of
      course we never would do such a thing, but I&rsquo;m pretty sure she had
      something of the kind on her mind. She didn&rsquo;t say anything, but the way
      she looked is what makes me think so. Honestly, to me she looked just
      scared sick. You tell her there isn&rsquo;t any danger in the world of my
      treating her like that. Tell her everything is to go on just as it always
      has. Tell her to cheer up!
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0015" id="link2HCH0015">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
