<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 10</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">X</h2>
    <p>
      A few days after George&rsquo;s return to the university it became evident that
      not quite everybody had gazed with complete benevolence upon the various
      young collegians at their holiday sports. The Sunday edition of the
      principal morning paper even expressed some bitterness under the heading,
      &ldquo;Gilded Youths of the Fin-de-Siecle&rdquo;&mdash;this was considered the knowing
      phrase of the time, especially for Sunday supplements&mdash;and there is
      no doubt that from certain references in this bit of writing some people
      drew the conclusion that Mr. George Amberson Minafer had not yet got his
      comeuppance, a postponement still irritating. Undeniably, Fanny Minafer
      was one of the people who drew this conclusion, for she cut the article
      out and enclosed it in a letter to her nephew, having written on the
      border of the clipping, &ldquo;I wonder whom it can mean!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George read part of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      We debate sometimes what is to be the future of this nation when we think
      that in a few years public affairs may be in the hands of the
      fin-de-siecle gilded youths we see about us during the Christmas holidays.
      Such foppery, such luxury, such insolence, was surely never practised by
      the scented, overbearing patricians of the Palatine, even in Rome&rsquo;s most
      decadent epoch. In all the wild orgy of wastefulness and luxury with which
      the nineteenth century reaches its close, the gilded youth has been surely
      the worst symptom. With his airs of young milord, his fast horses, his
      gold and silver cigarette-cases, his clothes from a New York tailor, his
      recklessness of money showered upon him by indulgent mothers or doting
      grandfathers, he respects nothing and nobody. He is blase if you please.
      Watch him at a social function how condescendingly he deigns to select a
      partner for the popular waltz or two step how carelessly he shoulders
      older people out of his way, with what a blank stare he returns the
      salutation of some old acquaintance whom he may choose in his royal whim
      to forget! The unpleasant part of all this is that the young women he so
      condescendingly selects as partners for the dance greet him with seeming
      rapture, though in their hearts they must feel humiliated by his languid
      hauteur, and many older people beam upon him almost fawningly if he
      unbends so far as to throw them a careless, disdainful word!
    </p>
    <p>
      One wonders what has come over the new generation. Of such as these the
      Republic was not made. Let us pray that the future of our country is not
      in the hands of these fin-de-siecle gilded youths, but rather in the
      calloused palms of young men yet unknown, labouring upon the farms of the
      land. When we compare the young manhood of Abraham Lincoln with the
      specimens we are now producing, we see too well that it bodes ill for the
      twentieth century&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      George yawned, and tossed the clipping into his waste-basket, wondering
      why his aunt thought such dull nonsense worth the sending. As for her
      insinuation, pencilled upon the border, he supposed she meant to joke&mdash;a
      supposition which neither surprised him nor altered his lifelong opinion
      of her wit.
    </p>
    <p>
      He read her letter with more interest:
    </p>
    <p>
      The dinner your mother gave for the Morgans was a lovely affair. It was
      last Monday evening, just ten days after you left. It was peculiarly
      appropriate that your mother should give this dinner, because her brother
      George, your uncle, was Mr. Morgan&rsquo;s most intimate friend before he left
      here a number of years ago, and it was a pleasant occasion for the formal
      announcement of some news which you heard from Lucy Morgan before you
      returned to college. At least she told me she had told you the night
      before you left that her father had decided to return here to live. It was
      appropriate that your mother, herself an old friend, should assemble a
      representative selection of Mr. Morgan&rsquo;s old friends around him at such a
      time. He was in great spirits and most entertaining. As your time was so
      charmingly taken up during your visit home with a younger member of his
      family, you probably overlooked opportunities of hearing him talk, and do
      not know what an interesting man he can be.
    </p>
    <p>
      He will soon begin to build his factory here for the manufacture of
      automobiles, which he says is a term he prefers to &ldquo;horseless carriages.&rdquo;
       Your Uncle George told me he would like to invest in this factory, as
      George thinks there is a future for automobiles; perhaps not for general
      use, but as an interesting novelty, which people with sufficient means
      would like to own for their amusement and the sake of variety. However, he
      said Mr. Morgan laughingly declined his offer, as Mr. M. was fully able to
      finance this venture, though not starting in a very large way. Your uncle
      said other people are manufacturing automobiles in different parts of the
      country with success. Your father is not very well, though he is not
      actually ill, and the doctor tells him he ought not to be so much at his
      office, as the long years of application indoors with no exercise are
      beginning to affect him unfavourably, but I believe your father would die
      if he had to give up his work, which is all that has ever interested him
      outside of his family. I never could understand it. Mr. Morgan took your
      mother and me with Lucy to see Modjeska in &ldquo;Twelfth Night&rdquo; yesterday
      evening, and Lucy said she thought the Duke looked rather like you, only
      much more democratic in his manner. I suppose you will think I have
      written a great deal about the Morgans in this letter, but thought you
      would be interested because of your interest in a younger member of his
      family. Hoping that you are finding college still as attractive as ever,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
             Affectionately,
                        Aunt Fanny.
</pre>
    <p>
      George read one sentence in this letter several times. Then he dropped the
      missive in his wastebasket to join the clipping, and strolled down the
      corridor of his dormitory to borrow a copy of &ldquo;Twelfth Night.&rdquo; Having
      secured one, he returned to his study and refreshed his memory of the play&mdash;but
      received no enlightenment that enabled him to comprehend Lucy&rsquo;s strange
      remark. However, he found himself impelled in the direction of
      correspondence, and presently wrote a letter&mdash;not a reply to his Aunt
      Fanny.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dear Lucy: No doubt you will be surprised at hearing from me so soon
      again, especially as this makes two in answer to the one received from you
      since getting back to the old place. I hear you have been making comments
      about me at the theatre, that some actor was more democratic in his
      manners than I am, which I do not understand. You know my theory of life
      because I explained it to you on our first drive together, when I told you
      I would not talk to everybody about things I feel like the way I spoke to
      you of my theory of life. I believe those who are able should have a true
      theory of life, and I developed my theory of life long, long ago.
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, here I sit smoking my faithful briar pipe, indulging in the
      fragrance of my tobacco as I look out on the campus from my many-paned
      window, and things are different with me from the way they were way back
      in Freshman year. I can see now how boyish in many ways I was then. I
      believe what has changed me as much as anything was my visit home at the
      time I met you. So I sit here with my faithful briar and dream the old
      dreams over as it were, dreaming of the waltzes we waltzed together and of
      that last night before we parted, and you told me the good news you were
      going to live there, and I would find my friend waiting for me, when I get
      home next summer.
    </p>
    <p>
      I will be glad my friend will be waiting for me. I am not capable of
      friendship except for the very few, and, looking back over my life, I
      remember there were times when I doubted if I could feel a great
      friendship for anybody&mdash;especially girls. I do not take a great
      interest in many people, as you know, for I find most of them shallow.
      Here in the old place I do not believe in being hail-fellow-well-met with
      every Tom, Dick, and Harry just because he happens to be a classmate, any
      more than I do at home, where I have always been careful who I was seen
      with, largely on account of the family, but also because my disposition
      ever since my boyhood has been to encourage real intimacy from but the
      few.
    </p>
    <p>
      What are you reading now? I have finished both &ldquo;Henry Esmond&rdquo; and &ldquo;The
      Virginians.&rdquo; I like Thackeray because he is not trashy, and because he
      writes principally of nice people. My theory of literature is an author
      who does not indulge in trashiness&mdash;writes about people you could
      introduce into your own home. I agree with my Uncle Sydney, as I once
      heard him say he did not care to read a book or go to a play about people
      he would not care to meet at his own dinner table. I believe we should
      live by certain standards and ideals, as you know from my telling you my
      theory of life.
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, a letter is no place for deep discussions, so I will not go into the
      subject. From several letters from my mother, and one from Aunt Fanny, I
      hear you are seeing a good deal of the family since I left. I hope
      sometimes you think of the member who is absent. I got a silver frame for
      your photograph in New York, and I keep it on my desk. It is the only
      girl&rsquo;s photograph I ever took the trouble to have framed, though, as I
      told you frankly, I have had any number of other girls&rsquo; photographs, yet
      all were only passing fancies, and oftentimes I have questioned in years
      past if I was capable of much friendship toward the feminine sex, which I
      usually found shallow until our own friendship began. When I look at your
      photograph, I say to myself, &ldquo;At last, at last here is one that will not
      prove shallow.&rdquo;
     </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
My faithful briar has gone out. I will have to rise and fill it, then
once more in the fragrance of My Lady Nicotine, I will sit and dream the
old dreams over, and think, too, of the true friend at home awaiting my
return in June for the summer vacation.

             Friend, this is from your friend,
                                            G.A.M.
</pre>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s anticipations were not disappointed. When he came home in June
      his friend was awaiting him; at least, she was so pleased to see him again
      that for a few minutes after their first encounter she was a little
      breathless, and a great deal glowing, and quiet withal. Their sentimental
      friendship continued, though sometimes he was irritated by her making it
      less sentimental than he did, and sometimes by what he called her &ldquo;air of
      superiority.&rdquo; Her air was usually, in truth, that of a fond but amused
      older sister; and George did not believe such an attitude was warranted by
      her eight months of seniority.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lucy and her father were living at the Amberson Hotel, while Morgan got
      his small machine-shops built in a western outskirt of the town; and
      George grumbled about the shabbiness and the old-fashioned look of the
      hotel, though it was &ldquo;still the best in the place, of course.&rdquo; He
      remonstrated with his grandfather, declaring that the whole Amberson
      Estate would be getting &ldquo;run-down and out-at-heel, if things weren&rsquo;t taken
      in hand pretty soon.&rdquo; He urged the general need of rebuilding, renovating,
      varnishing, and lawsuits. But the Major, declining to hear him out,
      interrupted querulously, saying that he had enough to bother him without
      any advice from George; and retired to his library, going so far as to
      lock the door audibly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Second childhood!&rdquo; George muttered, shaking his head; and he thought
      sadly that the Major had not long to live. However, this surmise depressed
      him for only a moment or so. Of course, people couldn&rsquo;t be expected to
      live forever, and it would be a good thing to have someone in charge of
      the Estate who wouldn&rsquo;t let it get to looking so rusty that riffraff dared
      to make fun of it. For George had lately undergone the annoyance of
      calling upon the Morgans, in the rather stuffy red velours and gilt
      parlour of their apartment at the hotel, one evening when Mr. Frederick
      Kinney also was a caller, and Mr. Kinney had not been tactful. In fact,
      though he adopted a humorous tone of voice, in expressing his, sympathy
      for people who, through the city&rsquo;s poverty in hotels, were obliged to stay
      at the Amberson, Mr. Kinney&rsquo;s intention was interpreted by the other
      visitor as not at all humorous, but, on the contrary, personal and
      offensive.
    </p>
    <p>
      George rose abruptly, his face the colour of wrath. &ldquo;Good-night, Miss
      Morgan. Good-night, Mr. Morgan,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I shall take pleasure in
      calling at some other time when a more courteous sort of people may be
      present.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look here!&rdquo; the hot-headed Fred burst out. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you try to make me out
      a boor, George Minafer! I wasn&rsquo;t hinting anything at you; I simply forgot
      all about your grandfather owning this old building. Don&rsquo;t you try to put
      me in the light of a boor! I won&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But George walked out in the very course of this vehement protest, and it
      was necessarily left unfinished.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Kinney remained only a few moments after George&rsquo;s departure; and as
      the door closed upon him, the distressed Lucy turned to her father. She
      was plaintively surprised to find him in a condition of immoderate
      laughter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t&mdash;I didn&rsquo;t think I could hold out!&rdquo; he gasped, and, after
      choking until tears came to his eyes, felt blindly for the chair from
      which he had risen to wish Mr. Kinney an indistinct good-night. His hand
      found the arm of the chair; he collapsed feebly, and sat uttering
      incoherent sounds.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Papa!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It brings things back so!&rdquo; he managed to explain, &ldquo;This very Fred
      Kinney&rsquo;s father and young George&rsquo;s father, Wilbur Minafer, used to do just
      such things when they were at that age&mdash;and, for that matter, so did
      George Amberson and I, and all the rest of us!&rdquo; And, in spite of his
      exhaustion, he began to imitate: &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you try to put me in the light of
      a boor!&rdquo; &ldquo;I shall take pleasure in calling at some time when a more
      courteous sort of people&mdash;&rdquo; He was unable to go on.
    </p>
    <p>
      There is a mirth for every age, and Lucy failed to comprehend her
      father&rsquo;s, but tolerated it a little ruefully.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Papa, I think they were shocking. Weren&rsquo;t they awful!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just&mdash;just boys!&rdquo; he moaned, wiping his eyes. But Lucy could not
      smile at all; she was beginning to look indignant. &ldquo;I can forgive that
      poor Fred Kinney,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s just blundering&mdash;but George&mdash;oh,
      George behaved outrageously!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a difficult age,&rdquo; her father observed, his calmness somewhat
      restored. &ldquo;Girls don&rsquo;t seem to have to pass through it quite as boys do,
      or their savoir faire is instinctive&mdash;or something!&rdquo; And he gave away
      to a return of his convulsion.
    </p>
    <p>
      She came and sat upon the arm of his chair. &ldquo;Papa, why should George
      behave like that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s sensitive.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Rather! But why is he? He does anything he likes to, without any regard
      for what people think. Then why should he mind so furiously when the least
      little thing reflects upon him, or on anything or anybody connected with
      him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene patted her hand. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s one of the greatest puzzles of human
      vanity, dear; and I don&rsquo;t pretend to know the answer. In all my life, the
      most arrogant people that I&rsquo;ve known have been the most sensitive. The
      people who have done the most in contempt of other people&rsquo;s opinion, and
      who consider themselves the highest above it, have been the most furious
      if it went against them. Arrogant and domineering people can&rsquo;t stand the
      least, lightest, faintest breath of criticism. It just kills them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Papa, do you think George is arrogant and domineering?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, he&rsquo;s still only a boy,&rdquo; said Eugene consolingly. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s plenty of
      fine stuff in him&mdash;can&rsquo;t help but be, because he&rsquo;s Isabel Amberson&rsquo;s
      son.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lucy stroked his hair, which was still almost as dark as her own. &ldquo;You
      liked her pretty well once, I guess, papa.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do still,&rdquo; he said quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She&rsquo;s lovely&mdash;lovely! Papa&mdash;&rdquo; she paused, then continued&mdash;&ldquo;I
      wonder sometimes&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wonder just how she happened to marry Mr. Minafer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, Minafer&rsquo;s all right,&rdquo; said Eugene. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s a quiet sort of man, but
      he&rsquo;s a good man and a kind man. He always was, and those things count.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But in a way&mdash;well, I&rsquo;ve heard people say there wasn&rsquo;t anything to
      him at all except business and saving money. Miss Fanny Minafer herself
      told me that everything George and his mother have of their own&mdash;that
      is, just to spend as they like&mdash;she says it has always come from
      Major Amberson.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thrift, Horatio!&rdquo; said Eugene lightly. &ldquo;Thrift&rsquo;s an inheritance, and a
      common enough one here. The people who settled the country had to save, so
      making and saving were taught as virtues, and the people, to the third
      generation, haven&rsquo;t found out that making and saving are only means to an
      end. Minafer doesn&rsquo;t believe in money being spent. He believes God made it
      to be invested and saved.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But George isn&rsquo;t saving. He&rsquo;s reckless, and even if he is arrogant and
      conceited and bad-tempered, he&rsquo;s awfully generous.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, he&rsquo;s an Amberson,&rdquo; said her father. &ldquo;The Ambersons aren&rsquo;t saving.
      They&rsquo;re too much the other way, most of them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think I should have called George bad-tempered,&rdquo; Lucy said
      thoughtfully. &ldquo;No. I don&rsquo;t think he is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only when he&rsquo;s cross about something?&rdquo; Morgan suggested, with a semblance
      of sympathetic gravity.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; she said brightly, not perceiving that his intention was humorous.
      &ldquo;All the rest of the time he&rsquo;s really very amiable. Of course, he&rsquo;s much
      more a perfect child, the whole time, than he realizes! He certainly
      behaved awfully to-night.&rdquo; She jumped up, her indignation returning. &ldquo;He
      did, indeed, and it won&rsquo;t do to encourage him in it. I think he&rsquo;ll find me
      pretty cool&mdash;for a week or so!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Whereupon her father suffered a renewal of his attack of uproarious
      laughter.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0011" id="link2HCH0011">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
