<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 29</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIX</h2>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let her&rdquo; was correct; but the time came&mdash;and it came in the spring
      of the next year when it was no longer a question of George&rsquo;s letting his
      mother come home. He had to bring her, and to bring her quickly if she was
      to see her father again; and Amberson had been right: her danger of never
      seeing him again lay not in the Major&rsquo;s feebleness of heart but in her
      own. As it was, George telegraphed his uncle to have a wheeled chair at
      the station, for the journey had been disastrous, and to this hybrid
      vehicle, placed close to the platform, her son carried her in his arms
      when she arrived. She was unable to speak, but patted her brother&rsquo;s and
      Fanny&rsquo;s hands and looked &ldquo;very sweet,&rdquo; Fanny found the desperate courage
      to tell her. She was lifted from the chair into a carriage, and seemed a
      little stronger as they drove home; for once she took her hand from
      George&rsquo;s, and waved it feebly toward the carriage window.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Changed,&rdquo; she whispered. &ldquo;So changed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mean the town,&rdquo; Amberson said. &ldquo;You mean the old place is changed,
      don&rsquo;t you, dear?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She smiled and moved her lips: &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;ll change to a happier place, old dear,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;now that you&rsquo;re
      back in it, and going to get well again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But she only looked at him wistfully, her eyes a little frightened.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the carriage stopped, her son carried her into the house, and up the
      stairs to her own room, where a nurse was waiting; and he came out a
      moment later, as the doctor went in. At the end of the hall a stricken
      group was clustered: Amberson, and Fanny, and the Major. George, deathly
      pale and speechless, took his grandfather&rsquo;s hand, but the old gentleman
      did not seem to notice his action.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When are they going to let me see my daughter?&rdquo; he asked querulously.
      &ldquo;They told me to keep out of the way while they carried her in, because it
      might upset her. I wish they&rsquo;d let me go in and speak to my daughter. I
      think she wants to see me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was right&mdash;presently the doctor came out and beckoned to him; and
      the Major shuffled forward, leaning on a shaking cane; his figure, after
      all its Years of proud soldierliness, had grown stooping at last, and his
      untrimmed white hair straggled over the back of his collar. He looked old&mdash;old
      and divested of the world&mdash;as he crept toward his daughter&rsquo;s room.
      Her voice was stronger, for the waiting group heard a low cry of
      tenderness and welcome as the old man reached the open doorway. Then the
      door was closed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Fanny touched her nephew&rsquo;s arm. &ldquo;George, you must need something to eat&mdash;I
      know she&rsquo;d want you to. I&rsquo;ve had things ready: I knew she&rsquo;d want me to.
      You&rsquo;d better go down to the dining room: there&rsquo;s plenty on the table,
      waiting for you. She&rsquo;d want you to eat something.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He turned a ghastly face to her, it was so panic-stricken. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want
      anything to eat!&rdquo; he said savagely. And he began to pace the floor, taking
      care not to go near Isabel&rsquo;s door, and that his footsteps were muffled by
      the long, thick hall rug. After a while he went to where Amberson, with
      folded arms and bowed head, had seated himself near the front window.
      &ldquo;Uncle George,&rdquo; he said hoarsely. &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, my God, I didn&rsquo;t think this thing the matter with her could ever be
      serious! I&mdash;&rdquo; He gasped. &ldquo;When that doctor I had meet us at the boat&mdash;&rdquo;
       He could not go on.
    </p>
    <p>
      Amberson only nodded his head, and did not otherwise change his attitude.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel lived through the night. At eleven O&rsquo;clock Fanny came timidly to
      George in his room. &ldquo;Eugene is here,&rdquo; she whispered. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s downstairs. He
      wants&mdash;&rdquo; She gulped. &ldquo;He wants to know if he can&rsquo;t see her. I didn&rsquo;t
      know what to say. I said I&rsquo;d see. I didn&rsquo;t know&mdash;the doctor said&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The doctor said we &lsquo;must keep her peaceful,&rsquo;&rdquo; George said sharply. &ldquo;Do
      you think that man&rsquo;s coming would be very soothing? My God! if it hadn&rsquo;t
      been for him this mightn&rsquo;t have happened: we could have gone on living
      here quietly, and&mdash;why, it would be like taking a stranger into her
      room! She hasn&rsquo;t even spoken of him more than twice in all the time we&rsquo;ve
      been away. Doesn&rsquo;t he know how sick she is? You tell him the doctor said
      she had to be quiet and peaceful. That&rsquo;s what he did say, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fanny acquiesced tearfully. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll tell him. I&rsquo;ll tell him the doctor said
      she was to be kept very quiet. I&mdash;I didn&rsquo;t know&mdash;&rdquo; And she
      pottered out.
    </p>
    <p>
      An hour later the nurse appeared in George&rsquo;s doorway; she came
      noiselessly, and his back was toward her; but he jumped as if he had been
      shot, and his jaw fell, he so feared what she was going to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She wants to see you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The terrified mouth shut with a click; and he nodded and followed her; but
      she remained outside his mother&rsquo;s room while he went in.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel&rsquo;s eyes were closed, and she did not open them or move her head, but
      she smiled and edged her hand toward him as he sat on a stool beside the
      bed. He took that slender, cold hand, and put it to his cheek.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Darling, did you&mdash;get something to eat?&rdquo; She could only whisper,
      slowly and with difficulty. It was as if Isabel herself were far away, and
      only able to signal what she wanted to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, mother.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All you&mdash;needed?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, mother.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She did not speak again for a time; then, &ldquo;Are you sure you didn&rsquo;t&mdash;didn&rsquo;t
      catch cold coming home?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m all right, mother.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s good. It&rsquo;s sweet&mdash;it&rsquo;s sweet&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is, mother darling?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To feel&mdash;my hand on your cheek. I&mdash;I can feel it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But this frightened him horribly&mdash;that she seemed so glad she could
      feel it, like a child proud of some miraculous seeming thing accomplished.
      It frightened him so that he could not speak, and he feared that she would
      know how he trembled; but she was unaware, and again was silent. Finally
      she spoke again:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wonder if&mdash;if Eugene and Lucy know that we&rsquo;ve come&mdash;home.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure they do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has he&mdash;asked about me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, he was here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has he&mdash;gone?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, mother.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She sighed faintly. &ldquo;I&rsquo;d like&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What, mother?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to have&mdash;seen him.&rdquo; It was just audible, this little
      regretful murmur. Several minutes passed before there was another. &ldquo;Just&mdash;just
      once,&rdquo; she whispered, and then was still.
    </p>
    <p>
      She seemed to have fallen asleep, and George moved to go, but a faint
      pressure upon his fingers detained him, and he remained, with her hand
      still pressed against his cheek. After a while he made sure she was
      asleep, and moved again, to let the nurse come in, and this time there was
      no pressure of the fingers to keep him. She was not asleep, but thinking
      that if he went he might get some rest, and be better prepared for what
      she knew was coming, she commanded those longing fingers of hers&mdash;and
      let him go.
    </p>
    <p>
      He found the doctor standing with the nurse in the hall; and, telling them
      that his mother was drowsing now, George went back to his own room, where
      he was startled to find his grandfather lying on the bed, and his uncle
      leaning against the wall. They had gone home two hours before, and he did
      not know they had returned.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The doctor thought we&rsquo;d better come over,&rdquo; Amberson said, then was
      silent, and George, shaking violently, sat down on the edge of the bed.
      His shaking continued, and from time to time he wiped heavy sweat from his
      forehead.
    </p>
    <p>
      The hours passed, and sometimes the old man upon the bed would snore a
      little, stop suddenly, and move as if to rise, but George Amberson would
      set a hand upon his shoulder, and murmur a reassuring word or two. Now and
      then, either uncle or nephew would tiptoe into the hall and look toward
      Isabel&rsquo;s room, then come tiptoeing back, the other watching him haggardly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Once George gasped defiantly: &ldquo;That doctor in New York said she might get
      better! Don&rsquo;t you know he did? Don&rsquo;t you know he said she might?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson made no answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dawn had been murking through the smoky windows, growing stronger for half
      an hour, when both men started violently at a sound in the hall; and the
      Major sat up on the bed, unchecked. It was the voice of the nurse speaking
      to Fanny Minafer, and the next moment, Fanny appeared in the doorway,
      making contorted efforts to speak.
    </p>
    <p>
      Amberson said weakly: &ldquo;Does she want us&mdash;to come in?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Fanny found her voice, and uttered a long, loud cry. She threw her
      arms about George, and sobbed in an agony of loss and compassion:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She loved you!&rdquo; she wailed. &ldquo;She loved you! She loved you! Oh, how she
      did love you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel had just left them.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0030" id="link2HCH0030">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
