<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 18</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVIII</h2>
    <p>
      That evening, after dinner, George sat with his mother and his Aunt Fanny
      upon the veranda. In former summers, when they sat outdoors in the
      evening, they had customarily used an open terrace at the side of the
      house, looking toward the Major&rsquo;s, but that more private retreat now
      afforded too blank and abrupt a view of the nearest of the new houses; so,
      without consultation, they had abandoned it for the Romanesque stone
      structure in front, an oppressive place.
    </p>
    <p>
      Its oppression seemed congenial to George; he sat upon the copestone of
      the stone parapet, his back against a stone pilaster; his attitude not
      comfortable, but rigid, and his silence not comfortable, either, but
      heavy. However, to the eyes of his mother and his aunt, who occupied
      wicker chairs at a little distance, he was almost indistinguishable except
      for the stiff white shield of his evening frontage.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s so nice of you always to dress in the evening, Georgie,&rdquo; his mother
      said, her glance resting upon this surface. &ldquo;Your Uncle George always used
      to, and so did father, for years; but they both stopped quite a long time
      ago. Unless there&rsquo;s some special occasion, it seems to me we don&rsquo;t see it
      done any more, except on the stage and in the magazines.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He made no response, and Isabel, after waiting a little while, as if she
      expected one, appeared to acquiesce in his mood for silence, and turned
      her head to gaze thoughtfully out at the street.
    </p>
    <p>
      There, in the highway, the evening life of the Midland city had begun. A
      rising moon was bright upon the tops of the shade trees, where their
      branches met overhead, arching across the street, but only filtered
      splashings of moonlight reached the block pavement below; and through this
      darkness flashed the firefly lights of silent bicycles gliding by in pairs
      and trios&mdash;or sometimes a dozen at a time might come, and not so
      silent, striking their little bells; the riders&rsquo; voices calling and
      laughing; while now and then a pair of invisible experts would pass,
      playing mandolin and guitar as if handle-bars were of no account in the
      world&mdash;their music would come swiftly, and then too swiftly die away.
      Surreys rumbled lightly by, with the plod-plod of honest old horses, and
      frequently there was the glitter of whizzing spokes from a runabout or a
      sporting buggy, and the sharp, decisive hoof-beats of a trotter. Then,
      like a cowboy shooting up a peaceful camp, a frantic devil would hurtle
      out of the distance, bellowing, exhaust racketing like a machine gun gone
      amuck&mdash;and at these horrid sounds the surreys and buggies would hug
      the curbstone, and the bicycles scatter to cover, cursing; while children
      rushed from the sidewalks to drag pet dogs from the street. The thing
      would roar by, leaving a long wake of turbulence; then the indignant
      street would quiet down for a few minutes&mdash;till another came.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are a great many more than there used to be,&rdquo; Miss Fanny observed,
      in her lifeless voice, as the lull fell after one of these visitations.
      &ldquo;Eugene is right about that; there seem to be at least three or four times
      as many as there were last summer, and you never hear the ragamuffins
      shouting &lsquo;Get a horse!&rsquo; nowadays; but I think he may be mistaken about
      their going on increasing after this. I don&rsquo;t believe we&rsquo;ll see so many
      next summer as we do now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo; asked Isabel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Because I&rsquo;ve begun to agree with George about their being more a fad than
      anything else, and I think it must be the height of the fad just now. You
      know how roller-skating came in&mdash;everybody in the world seemed to be
      crowding to the rinks&mdash;and now only a few children use rollers for
      getting to school. Besides, people won&rsquo;t permit the automobiles to be
      used. Really, I think they&rsquo;ll make laws against them. You see how they
      spoil the bicycling and the driving; people just seem to hate them!
      They&rsquo;ll never stand it&mdash;never in the world! Of course I&rsquo;d be sorry to
      see such a thing happen to Eugene, but I shouldn&rsquo;t be really surprised to
      see a law passed forbidding the sale of automobiles, just the way there is
      with concealed weapons.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Fanny!&rdquo; exclaimed her sister-in-law. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not in earnest?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am, though!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel&rsquo;s sweet-toned laugh came out of the dusk where she sat. &ldquo;Then you
      didn&rsquo;t mean it when you told Eugene you&rsquo;d enjoyed the drive this
      afternoon?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t say it so very enthusiastically, did I?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps not, but he certainly thought he&rsquo;d pleased you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think I gave him any right to think he&rsquo;d pleased me&rdquo; Fanny said
      slowly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not? Why shouldn&rsquo;t you, Fanny?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fanny did not reply at once, and when she did, her voice was almost
      inaudible, but much more reproachful than plaintive. &ldquo;I hardly think I&rsquo;d
      want any one to get the notion he&rsquo;d pleased me just now. It hardly seems
      time, yet&mdash;to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel made no response, and for a time the only sound upon the dark
      veranda was the creaking of the wicker rocking-chair in which Fanny sat&mdash;a
      creaking which seemed to denote content and placidity on the part of the
      chair&rsquo;s occupant, though at this juncture a series of human shrieks could
      have been little more eloquent of emotional disturbance. However, the
      creaking gave its hearer one great advantage: it could be ignored.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you given up smoking, George?&rdquo; Isabel asked presently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hoped perhaps you had, because you&rsquo;ve not smoked since dinner. We
      shan&rsquo;t mind if you care to.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, thanks.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was silence again, except for the creaking of the rocking-chair;
      then a low, clear whistle, singularly musical, was heard softly rendering
      an old air from &ldquo;Fra Diavolo.&rdquo; The creaking stopped.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is that you, George?&rdquo; Fanny asked abruptly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is that me what?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Whistling &lsquo;On Yonder Rock Reclining&rsquo;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s I,&rdquo; said Isabel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; Fanny said dryly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Does it disturb you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not at all. I had an idea George was depressed about something, and
      merely wondered if he could be making such a cheerful sound.&rdquo; And Fanny
      resumed her creaking.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is she right, George?&rdquo; his mother asked quickly, leaning forward in her
      chair to peer at him through the dusk. &ldquo;You didn&rsquo;t eat a very hearty
      dinner, but I thought it was probably because of the warm weather. Are you
      troubled about anything?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; he said angrily.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s good. I thought we had such a nice day, didn&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose so,&rdquo; he muttered, and, satisfied, she leaned back in her chair;
      but &ldquo;Fra Diavolo&rdquo; was not revived. After a time she rose, went to the
      steps, and stood for several minutes looking across the street. Then her
      laughter was faintly heard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you laughing about something?&rdquo; Fanny inquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon?&rdquo; Isabel did not turn, but continued her observation of what had
      interested her upon the opposite side of the street.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I asked: Were you laughing at something?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, I was!&rdquo; And she laughed again. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s that funny, fat old Mrs.
      Johnson. She has a habit of sitting at her bedroom window with a pair of
      opera-glasses.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Really!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Really. You can see the window through the place that was left when we
      had the dead walnut tree cut down. She looks up and down the street, but
      mostly at father&rsquo;s and over here. Sometimes she forgets to put out the
      light in her room, and there she is, spying away for all the world to
      see!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      However, Fanny made no effort to observe this spectacle, but continued her
      creaking. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve always thought her a very good woman,&rdquo; she said primly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So she is,&rdquo; Isabel agreed. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s a good, friendly old thing, a little
      too intimate in her manner, sometimes, and if her poor old opera-glasses
      afford her the quiet happiness of knowing what sort of young man our new
      cook is walking out with, I&rsquo;m the last to begrudge it to her! Don&rsquo;t you
      want to come and look at her, George?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What? I beg your pardon. I hadn&rsquo;t noticed what you were talking about.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s nothing,&rdquo; she laughed. &ldquo;Only a funny old lady&mdash;and she&rsquo;s gone
      now. I&rsquo;m going, too&mdash;at least, I&rsquo;m going indoors to read. It&rsquo;s cooler
      in the house, but the heat&rsquo;s really not bad anywhere, since nightfall.
      Summer&rsquo;s dying. How quickly it goes, once it begins to die.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When she had gone into the house, Fanny stopped rocking, and, leaning
      forward, drew her black gauze wrap about her shoulders and shivered.
      &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t it queer,&rdquo; she said drearily, &ldquo;how your mother can use such words?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What words are you talking about?&rdquo; George asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Words like &lsquo;die&rsquo; and &lsquo;dying.&rsquo; I don&rsquo;t see how she can bear to use them so
      soon after your poor father&mdash;&rdquo; She shivered again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s almost a year,&rdquo; George said absently, and he added: &ldquo;It seems to me
      you&rsquo;re using them yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I? Never!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, you did.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just this minute.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh!&rdquo; said Fanny. &ldquo;You mean when I repeated what she said? That&rsquo;s hardly
      the same thing, George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was not enough interested to argue the point. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think you&rsquo;ll
      convince anybody that mother&rsquo;s unfeeling,&rdquo; he said indifferently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not trying to convince anybody. I mean merely that in my opinion&mdash;well,
      perhaps it may be just as wise for me to keep my opinions to myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She paused expectantly, but her possible anticipation that George would
      urge her to discard wisdom and reveal her opinion was not fulfilled. His
      back was toward her, and he occupied himself with opinions of his own
      about other matters. Fanny may have felt some disappointment as she rose
      to withdraw.
    </p>
    <p>
      However, at the last moment she halted with her hand upon the latch of the
      screen door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s one thing I hope,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I hope at least she won&rsquo;t leave off
      her full mourning on the very anniversary of Wilbur&rsquo;s death!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The light door clanged behind her, and the sound annoyed her nephew. He
      had no idea why she thus used inoffensive wood and wire to dramatize her
      departure from the veranda, the impression remaining with him being that
      she was critical of his mother upon some point of funeral millinery.
      Throughout the desultory conversation he had been profoundly concerned
      with his own disturbing affairs, and now was preoccupied with a dialogue
      taking place (in his mind) between himself and Miss Lucy Morgan. As he
      beheld the vision, Lucy had just thrown herself at his feet. &ldquo;George, you
      must forgive me!&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;Papa was utterly wrong! I have told him so,
      and the truth is that I have come to rather dislike him as you do, and as
      you always have, in your heart of hearts. George, I understand you: thy
      people shall be my people and thy gods my gods. George, won&rsquo;t you take me
      back?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lucy, are you sure you understand me?&rdquo; And in the darkness George&rsquo;s
      bodily lips moved in unison with those which uttered the words in his
      imaginary rendering of this scene. An eavesdropper, concealed behind the
      column, could have heard the whispered word &ldquo;sure,&rdquo; the emphasis put upon
      it in the vision was so poignant. &ldquo;You say you understand me, but are you
      sure?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Weeping, her head bowed almost to her waist, the ethereal Lucy made reply:
      &ldquo;Oh, so sure! I will never listen to father&rsquo;s opinions again. I do not
      even care if I never see him again!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then I pardon you,&rdquo; he said gently.
    </p>
    <p>
      This softened mood lasted for several moments&mdash;until he realized that
      it had been brought about by processes strikingly lacking in substance.
      Abruptly he swung his feet down from the copestone to the floor of the
      veranda. &ldquo;Pardon nothing!&rdquo; No meek Lucy had thrown herself in remorse at
      his feet; and now he pictured her as she probably really was at this
      moment: sitting on the white steps of her own front porch in the
      moonlight, with red-headed Fred Kinney and silly Charlie Johnson and four
      or five others&mdash;all of them laughing, most likely, and some idiot
      playing the guitar!
    </p>
    <p>
      George spoke aloud: &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And because of an impish but all too natural reaction of the mind, he
      could see Lucy with much greater distinctness in this vision than in his
      former pleasing one. For a moment she was miraculously real before him,
      every line and colour of her. He saw the moonlight shimmering in the
      chiffon of her skirts brightest on her crossed knee and the tip of her
      slipper; saw the blue curve of the characteristic shadow behind her, as
      she leaned back against the white step; saw the watery twinkling of
      sequins in the gauze wrap over her white shoulders as she moved, and the
      faint, symmetrical lights in her black hair&mdash;and not one alluring,
      exasperating twentieth-of-an-inch of her laughing profile was spared him
      as she seemed to turn to the infernal Kinney&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo; And George began furiously to pace the stone floor.
      &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo; By this hard term&mdash;a favourite with him since childhood&rsquo;s
      scornful hour&mdash;he meant to indicate, not Lucy, but the young
      gentlemen who, in his vision, surrounded her. &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo; he said again,
      aloud, and again:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At that moment, as it happened, Lucy was playing chess with her father;
      and her heart, though not remorseful, was as heavy as George could have
      wished. But she did not let Eugene see that she was troubled, and he was
      pleased when he won three games of her. Usually she beat him.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0019" id="link2HCH0019">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
