<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 33</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIII</h2>
    <p>
      They found the job. It needed an apprenticeship of only six weeks, during
      which period George was to receive fifteen dollars a week; after that he
      would get twenty-eight. This settled the apartment question, and Fanny was
      presently established in a greater contentment than she had known for a
      long time. Early every morning she made something she called (and believed
      to be) coffee for George, and he was gallant enough not to undeceive her.
      She lunched alone in her &ldquo;kitchenette,&rdquo; for George&rsquo;s place of employment
      was ten miles out of town on an interurban trolley-line, and he seldom
      returned before seven. Fanny found partners for bridge by two o&rsquo;clock
      almost every afternoon, and she played until about six. Then she got
      George&rsquo;s &ldquo;dinner clothes&rdquo; out for him&mdash;he maintained this habit&mdash;and
      she changed her own dress. When he arrived he usually denied that he was
      tired, though he sometimes looked tired, particularly during the first few
      months; and he explained to her frequently&mdash;looking bored enough with
      her insistence&mdash;that his work was &ldquo;fairly light, and fairly
      congenial, too.&rdquo; Fanny had the foggiest idea of what it was, though she
      noticed that it roughened his hands and stained them. &ldquo;Something in those
      new chemical works,&rdquo; she explained to casual inquirers. It was not more
      definite in her own mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Respect for George undoubtedly increased within her, however, and she told
      him she&rsquo;d always had a feeling he might &ldquo;turn out to be a mechanical
      genius, or something.&rdquo; George assented with a nod, as the easiest course
      open to him. He did not take a hand at bridge after dinner: his
      provisions&rsquo; for Fanny&rsquo;s happiness refused to extend that far, and at the
      table d&rsquo;hote he was a rather discouraging boarder. He was considered
      &ldquo;affected&rdquo; and absurdly &ldquo;up-stage&rdquo; by the one or two young men, and the
      three or four young women, who enlivened the elderly retreat; and was
      possibly less popular there than he had been elsewhere during his life,
      though he was now nothing worse than a coldly polite young man who kept to
      himself. After dinner he would escort his aunt from the table in some
      state (not wholly unaccompanied by a leerish wink or two from the wags of
      the place) and he would leave her at the door of the communal parlours and
      card rooms, with a formality in his bow of farewell which afforded an
      amusing contrast to Fanny&rsquo;s always voluble protests. (She never failed to
      urge loudly that he really must come and play, just this once, and not go
      hiding from everybody in his room every evening like this!) At least some
      of the other inhabitants found the contrast amusing, for sometimes, as he
      departed stiffly toward the elevator, leaving her still entreating in the
      doorway (though with one eye already on her table, to see that it was not
      seized) a titter would follow him which he was no doubt meant to hear. He
      did not care whether they laughed or not.
    </p>
    <p>
      And once, as he passed the one or two young men of the place entertaining
      the three or four young women, who were elbowing and jerking on a settee
      in the lobby, he heard a voice inquiring quickly, as he passed:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What makes people tired?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Work?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, what&rsquo;s the answer?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Then, with an intentional outbreak of mirth, the answer was given by two
      loudly whispering voices together:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A stuck-up boarder!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George didn&rsquo;t care.
    </p>
    <p>
      On Sunday mornings Fanny went to church and George took long walks. He
      explored the new city, and found it hideous, especially in the early
      spring, before the leaves of the shade trees were out. Then the town was
      fagged with the long winter and blacked with the heavier smoke that had
      been held close to the earth by the smoke-fog it bred. Every-thing was
      damply streaked with the soot: the walls of the houses, inside and out,
      the gray curtains at the windows, the windows themselves, the dirty cement
      and unswept asphalt underfoot, the very sky overhead. Throughout this
      murky season he continued his explorations, never seeing a face he knew&mdash;for,
      on Sunday, those whom he remembered, or who might remember him, were not
      apt to be found within the limits of the town, but were congenially
      occupied with the new outdoor life which had come to be the mode since his
      boyhood. He and Fanny were pretty thoroughly buried away within the
      bigness of the city.
    </p>
    <p>
      One of his Sunday walks, that spring, he made into a sour pilgrimage. It
      was a misty morning of belated snow slush, and suited him to a perfection
      of miserableness, as he stood before the great dripping department store
      which now occupied the big plot of ground where once had stood both the
      Amberson Hotel and the Amberson Opera House. From there he drifted to the
      old &ldquo;Amberson Block,&rdquo; but this was fallen into a back-water; business had
      stagnated here. The old structure had not been replaced, but a cavernous
      entryway for trucks had been torn in its front, and upon the cornice,
      where the old separate metal letters had spelt &ldquo;Amberson Block,&rdquo; there was
      a long billboard sign: &ldquo;Doogan Storage.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      To spare himself nothing, he went out National Avenue and saw the piles of
      slush-covered wreckage where the Mansion and his mother&rsquo;s house had been,
      and where the Major&rsquo;s ill-fated five &ldquo;new&rdquo; houses had stood; for these
      were down, too, to make room for the great tenement already shaped in
      unending lines of foundation. But the Fountain of Neptune was gone at last&mdash;and
      George was glad that it was!
    </p>
    <p>
      He turned away from the devastated site, thinking bitterly that the only
      Amberson mark still left upon the town was the name of the boulevard&mdash;Amberson
      Boulevard. But he had reckoned without the city council of the new order,
      and by an unpleasant coincidence, while the thought was still in his mind,
      his eye fell upon a metal oblong sign upon the lamppost at the corner.
      There were two of these little signs upon the lamp-post, at an obtuse
      angle to each other, one to give passers-by the name of National Avenue,
      the other to acquaint them with Amberson Boulevard. But the one upon which
      should have been stenciled &ldquo;Amberson Boulevard&rdquo; exhibited the words &ldquo;Tenth
      Street.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George stared at it hard. Then he walked quickly along the boulevard to
      the next corner and looked at the little sign there. &ldquo;Tenth Street.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It had begun to rain, but George stood unheeding, staring at the little
      sign. &ldquo;Damn them!&rdquo; he said finally, and, turning up his coat-collar,
      plodded back through the soggy streets toward &ldquo;home.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The utilitarian impudence of the city authorities put a thought into his
      mind. A week earlier he had happened to stroll into the large parlour of
      the apartment house, finding it empty, and on the center table he noticed
      a large, red-bound, gilt-edged book, newly printed, bearing the title: &ldquo;A
      Civic History,&rdquo; and beneath the title, the rubric, &ldquo;Biographies of the 500
      Most Prominent Citizens and Families in the History of the City.&rdquo; He had
      glanced at it absently, merely noticing the title and sub-title, and
      wandered out of the room, thinking of other things and feeling no
      curiosity about the book. But he had thought of it several times since
      with a faint, vague uneasiness; and now when he entered the lobby he
      walked directly into the parlour where he had seen the book. The room was
      empty, as it always was on Sunday mornings, and the flamboyant volume was
      still upon the table&mdash;evidently a fixture as a sort of local Almanach
      de Gotha, or Burke, for the enlightenment of tenants and boarders.
    </p>
    <p>
      He opened it, finding a few painful steel engravings of placid,
      chin-bearded faces, some of which he remembered dimly; but much more
      numerous, and also more unfamiliar to him, were the pictures of neat,
      aggressive men, with clipped short hair and clipped short moustaches&mdash;almost
      all of them strangers to him. He delayed not long with these, but turned
      to the index where the names of the five hundred Most Prominent Citizens
      and Families in the History of the City were arranged in alphabetical
      order, and ran his finger down the column of A&rsquo;s:
    </p>
    <p>
      Abbett Abbott Abrams Adam Adams Adler Akers Albertsmeyer Alexander Allen
      Ambrose Ambuhl Anderson Andrews Appenbasch Archer Arszman Ashcraft Austin
      Avey
    </p>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s eyes remained for some time fixed on the thin space between the
      names &ldquo;Allen&rdquo; and &ldquo;Ambrose.&rdquo; Then he closed the book quietly, and went up
      to his own room, agreeing with the elevator boy, on the way, that it was
      getting to be a mighty nasty wet and windy day outside.
    </p>
    <p>
      The elevator boy noticed nothing unusual about him and neither did Fanny,
      when she came in from church with her hat ruined, an hour later. And yet
      something had happened&mdash;a thing which, years ago, had been the
      eagerest hope of many, many good citizens of the town. They had thought of
      it, longed for it, hoping acutely that they might live to see the day when
      it would come to pass. And now it had happened at last: Georgie Minafer
      had got his come-upance.
    </p>
    <p>
      He had got it three times filled and running over. The city had rolled
      over his heart, burying it under, as it rolled over the Major&rsquo;s and buried
      it under. The city had rolled over the Ambersons and buried them under to
      the last vestige; and it mattered little that George guessed easily enough
      that most of the five hundred Most Prominent had paid something
      substantial &ldquo;to defray the cost of steel engraving, etc.&rdquo;&mdash;the Five
      Hundred had heaved the final shovelful of soot upon that heap of obscurity
      wherein the Ambersons were lost forever from sight and history.
      &ldquo;Quicksilver in a nest of cracks!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie Minafer had got his come-upance, but the people who had so longed
      for it were not there to see it, and they never knew it. Those who were
      still living had forgotten all about it and all about him.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0034" id="link2HCH0034">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
