<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h2>
    <p>
      Another citizen said an eloquent thing about Miss Isabel Amberson&rsquo;s looks.
      This was Mrs. Henry Franklin Foster, the foremost literary authority and
      intellectual leader of the community&mdash;-for both the daily newspapers
      thus described Mrs. Foster when she founded the Women&rsquo;s Tennyson Club; and
      her word upon art, letters, and the drama was accepted more as law than as
      opinion. Naturally, when &ldquo;Hazel Kirke&rdquo; finally reached the town, after its
      long triumph in larger places, many people waited to hear what Mrs. Henry
      Franklin Foster thought of it before they felt warranted in expressing any
      estimate of the play. In fact, some of them waited in the lobby of the
      theatre, as they came out, and formed an inquiring group about her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t see the play,&rdquo; she informed them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What! Why, we saw you, right in the middle of the fourth row!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; she said, smiling, &ldquo;but I was sitting just behind Isabelle
      Amberson. I couldn&rsquo;t look at anything except her wavy brown hair and the
      wonderful back of her neck.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The ineligible young men of the town (they were all ineligible) were
      unable to content themselves with the view that had so charmed Mrs. Henry
      Franklin Foster: they spent their time struggling to keep Miss Amberson&rsquo;s
      face turned toward them. She turned it most often, observers said, toward
      two: one excelling in the general struggle by his sparkle, and the other
      by that winning if not winsome old trait, persistence. The sparkling
      gentleman &ldquo;led germans&rdquo; with her, and sent sonnets to her with his
      bouquets&mdash;sonnets lacking neither music nor wit. He was generous,
      poor, well-dressed, and his amazing persuasiveness was one reason why he
      was always in debt. No one doubted that he would be able to persuade
      Isabel, but he unfortunately joined too merry a party one night, and,
      during a moonlight serenade upon the lawn before the Amberson Mansion, was
      easily identified from the windows as the person who stepped through the
      bass viol and had to be assisted to a waiting carriage. One of Miss
      Amberson&rsquo;s brothers was among the serenaders, and, when the party had
      dispersed, remained propped against the front door in a state of helpless
      liveliness; the Major going down in a dressing-gown and slippers to bring
      him in, and scolding mildly, while imperfectly concealing strong impulses
      to laughter. Miss Amberson also laughed at this brother, the next day, but
      for the suitor it was a different matter: she refused to see him when he
      called to apologize. &ldquo;You seem to care a great deal about bass viols!&rdquo; he
      wrote her. &ldquo;I promise never to break another.&rdquo; She made no response to the
      note, unless it was an answer, two weeks later, when her engagement was
      announced. She took the persistent one, Wilbur Minafer, no breaker of bass
      viols or of hearts, no serenader at all.
    </p>
    <p>
      A few people, who always foresaw everything, claimed that they were not
      surprised, because though Wilbur Minafer &ldquo;might not be an Apollo, as it
      were,&rdquo; he was &ldquo;a steady young business man, and a good church-goer,&rdquo; and
      Isabel Amberson was &ldquo;pretty sensible&mdash;for such a showy girl.&rdquo; But the
      engagement astounded the young people, and most of their fathers and
      mothers, too; and as a topic it supplanted literature at the next meeting
      of the &ldquo;Women&rsquo;s Tennyson Club.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wilbur Minafer!&rdquo; a member cried, her inflection seeming to imply that
      Wilbur&rsquo;s crime was explained by his surname. &ldquo;Wilbur Minafer! It&rsquo;s the
      queerest thing I ever heard! To think of her taking Wilbur Minafer, just
      because a man any woman would like a thousand times better was a little
      wild one night at a serenade!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Mrs. Henry Franklin Foster. &ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t that. It isn&rsquo;t even
      because she&rsquo;s afraid he&rsquo;d be a dissipated husband and she wants to be
      safe. It isn&rsquo;t because she&rsquo;s religious or hates wildness; it isn&rsquo;t even
      because she hates wildness in him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, but look how she&rsquo;s thrown him over for it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, that wasn&rsquo;t her reason,&rdquo; said the wise Mrs. Henry Franklin Foster.
      &ldquo;If men only knew it&mdash;and it&rsquo;s a good thing they don&rsquo;t&mdash;a woman
      doesn&rsquo;t really care much about whether a man&rsquo;s wild or not, if it doesn&rsquo;t
      affect herself, and Isabel Amberson doesn&rsquo;t care a thing!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Foster!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, she doesn&rsquo;t. What she minds is his making a clown of himself in her
      front yard! It made her think he didn&rsquo;t care much about her. She&rsquo;s
      probably mistaken, but that&rsquo;s what she thinks, and it&rsquo;s too late for her
      to think anything else now, because she&rsquo;s going to be married right away&mdash;the
      invitations will be out next week. It&rsquo;ll be a big Amberson-style thing,
      raw oysters floating in scooped-out blocks of ice and a band from
      out-of-town&mdash;champagne, showy presents; a colossal present from the
      Major. Then Wilbur will take Isabel on the carefulest little wedding trip
      he can manage, and she&rsquo;ll be a good wife to him, but they&rsquo;ll have the
      worst spoiled lot of children this town will ever see.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How on earth do you make that out, Mrs. Foster?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She couldn&rsquo;t love Wilbur, could she?&rdquo; Mrs. Foster demanded, with no
      challengers. &ldquo;Well, it will all go to her children, and she&rsquo;ll ruin &lsquo;em!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The prophetess proved to be mistaken in a single detail merely: except for
      that, her foresight was accurate. The wedding was of Ambersonian
      magnificence, even to the floating oysters; and the Major&rsquo;s colossal
      present was a set of architect&rsquo;s designs for a house almost as elaborate
      and impressive as the Mansion, the house to be built in Amberson Addition
      by the Major. The orchestra was certainly not that local one which had
      suffered the loss of a bass viol; the musicians came, according to the
      prophecy and next morning&rsquo;s paper, from afar; and at midnight the bride
      was still being toasted in champagne, though she had departed upon her
      wedding journey at ten. Four days later the pair had returned to town,
      which promptness seemed fairly to demonstrate that Wilbur had indeed taken
      Isabel upon the carefulest little trip he could manage. According to every
      report, she was from the start &ldquo;a good wife to him,&rdquo; but here in a final
      detail the prophecy proved inaccurate. Wilbur and Isabel did not have
      children; they had only one.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only one,&rdquo; Mrs. Henry Franklin Foster admitted. &ldquo;But I&rsquo;d like to know if
      he isn&rsquo;t spoiled enough for a whole carload!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Again she found none to challenge her.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the age of nine, George Amberson Minafer, the Major&rsquo;s one grandchild,
      was a princely terror, dreaded not only in Amberson Addition but in many
      other quarters through which he galloped on his white pony. &ldquo;By golly, I
      guess you think you own this town!&rdquo; an embittered labourer complained, one
      day, as Georgie rode the pony straight through a pile of sand the man was
      sieving. &ldquo;I will when I grow up,&rdquo; the undisturbed child replied. &ldquo;I guess
      my grandpa owns it now, you bet!&rdquo; And the baffled workman, having no means
      to controvert what seemed a mere exaggeration of the facts could only
      mutter &ldquo;Oh, pull down your vest!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t haf to! Doctor says it ain&rsquo;t healthy!&rdquo; the boy returned promptly.
      &ldquo;But I&rsquo;ll tell you what I&rsquo;ll do: I&rsquo;ll pull down my vest if you&rsquo;ll wipe off
      your chin!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This was stock and stencil: the accustomed argot of street badinage of the
      period; and in such matters Georgie was an expert. He had no vest to pull
      down; the incongruous fact was that a fringed sash girdled the juncture of
      his velvet blouse and breeches, for the Fauntleroy period had set in, and
      Georgie&rsquo;s mother had so poor an eye for appropriate things, where Georgie
      was concerned, that she dressed him according to the doctrine of that
      school in boy decoration. Not only did he wear a silk sash, and silk
      stockings, and a broad lace collar, with his little black velvet suit: he
      had long brown curls, and often came home with burrs in them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Except upon the surface (which was not his own work, but his mother&rsquo;s)
      Georgie bore no vivid resemblance to the fabulous little Cedric. The
      storied boy&rsquo;s famous &ldquo;Lean on me, grandfather,&rdquo; would have been difficult
      to imagine upon the lips of Georgie. A month after his ninth birthday
      anniversary, when the Major gave him his pony, he had already become
      acquainted with the toughest boys in various distant parts of the town,
      and had convinced them that the toughness of a rich little boy with long
      curls might be considered in many respects superior to their own. He
      fought them, learning how to go berserk at a certain point in a fight,
      bursting into tears of anger, reaching for rocks, uttering wailed threats
      of murder and attempting to fulfil them. Fights often led to intimacies,
      and he acquired the art of saying things more exciting than &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t haf
      to!&rdquo; and &ldquo;Doctor says it ain&rsquo;t healthy!&rdquo; Thus, on a summer afternoon, a
      strange boy, sitting bored upon the gate-post of the Reverend Malloch
      Smith, beheld George Amberson Minafer rapidly approaching on his white
      pony, and was impelled by bitterness to shout: &ldquo;Shoot the ole jackass!
      Look at the girly curls! Say, bub, where&rsquo;d you steal your mother&rsquo;s ole
      sash!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your sister stole it for me!&rdquo; Georgie instantly replied, checking the
      pony. &ldquo;She stole it off our clo&rsquo;es-line an&rsquo; gave it to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You go get your hair cut!&rdquo; said the stranger hotly. &ldquo;Yah! I haven&rsquo;t got
      any sister!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know you haven&rsquo;t at home,&rdquo; Georgie responded. &ldquo;I mean the one that&rsquo;s in
      jail.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I dare you to get down off that pony!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie jumped to the ground, and the other boy descended from the
      Reverend Mr. Smith&rsquo;s gatepost&mdash;but he descended inside the gate. &ldquo;I
      dare you outside that gate,&rdquo; said Georgie.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yah! I dare you half way here. I dare you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But these were luckless challenges, for Georgie immediately vaulted the
      fence&mdash;and four minutes later Mrs. Malloch Smith, hearing strange
      noises, looked forth from a window; then screamed, and dashed for the
      pastor&rsquo;s study. Mr. Malloch Smith, that grim-bearded Methodist, came to
      the front yard and found his visiting nephew being rapidly prepared by
      Master Minafer to serve as a principal figure in a pageant of massacre. It
      was with great physical difficulty that Mr. Smith managed to give his
      nephew a chance to escape into the house, for Georgie was hard and quick,
      and, in such matters, remarkably intense; but the minister, after a
      grotesque tussle, got him separated from his opponent, and shook him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You stop that, you!&rdquo; Georgie cried fiercely; and wrenched himself away.
      &ldquo;I guess you don&rsquo;t know who I am!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, I do know!&rdquo; the angered Mr. Smith retorted. &ldquo;I know who you are, and
      you&rsquo;re a disgrace to your mother! Your mother ought to be ashamed of
      herself to allow&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shut up about my mother bein&rsquo; ashamed of herself!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Smith, exasperated, was unable to close the dialogue with dignity.
      &ldquo;She ought to be ashamed,&rdquo; he repeated. &ldquo;A woman that lets a bad boy like
      you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Georgie had reached his pony and mounted. Before setting off at his
      accustomed gallop, he paused to interrupt the Reverend Malloch Smith
      again. &ldquo;You pull down your vest, you ole Billygoat, you!&rdquo; he shouted,
      distinctly. &ldquo;Pull down your vest, wipe off your chin&mdash;an&rsquo; go to
      hell!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Such precocity is less unusual, even in children of the Rich, than most
      grown people imagine. However, it was a new experience for the Reverend
      Malloch Smith, and left him in a state of excitement. He at once wrote a
      note to Georgie&rsquo;s mother, describing the crime according to his nephew&rsquo;s
      testimony; and the note reached Mrs. Minafer before Georgie did. When he
      got home she read it to him sorrowfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dear Madam: Your son has caused a painful distress in my household. He
      made an unprovoked attack upon a little nephew of mine who is visiting in
      my household, insulted him by calling him vicious names and falsehoods,
      stating that ladies of his family were in jail. He then tried to make his
      pony kick him, and when the child, who is only eleven years old, while
      your son is much older and stronger, endeavoured to avoid his indignities
      and withdraw quietly, he pursued him into the enclosure of my property and
      brutally assaulted him. When I appeared upon this scene he deliberately
      called insulting words to me, concluding with profanity, such as &ldquo;go to
      hell,&rdquo; which was heard not only by myself but by my wife and the lady who
      lives next door. I trust such a state of undisciplined behaviour may be
      remedied for the sake of the reputation for propriety, if nothing higher,
      of the family to which this unruly child belongs.
    </p>
    <p>
      Georgie had muttered various interruptions, and as she concluded the
      reading he said: &ldquo;He&rsquo;s an ole liar!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Georgie, you mustn&rsquo;t say &lsquo;liar.&rsquo; Isn&rsquo;t this letter the truth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well,&rdquo; said Georgie, &ldquo;how old am I?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ten.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, look how he says I&rsquo;m older than a boy eleven years old.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s true,&rdquo; said Isabel. &ldquo;He does. But isn&rsquo;t some of it true, Georgie?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie felt himself to be in a difficulty here, and he was silent.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Georgie, did you say what he says you did?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Which one?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you tell him to&mdash;to&mdash;Did you say, &lsquo;Go to hell?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie looked worried for a moment longer; then he brightened. &ldquo;Listen
      here, mamma; grandpa wouldn&rsquo;t wipe his shoe on that ole story-teller,
      would he?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Georgie, you mustn&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean: none of the Ambersons wouldn&rsquo;t have anything to do with him,
      would they? He doesn&rsquo;t even know you, does he, mamma?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That hasn&rsquo;t anything to do with it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, it has! I mean: none of the Amberson family go to see him, and they
      never have him come in their house; they wouldn&rsquo;t ask him to, and they
      prob&rsquo;ly wouldn&rsquo;t even let him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That isn&rsquo;t what we&rsquo;re talking about.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I bet,&rdquo; said Georgie emphatically, &ldquo;I bet if he wanted to see any of &lsquo;em,
      he&rsquo;d haf to go around to the side door!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, dear, they&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, they would, mamma! So what does it matter if I did say somep&rsquo;m&rsquo; to
      him he didn&rsquo;t like? That kind o&rsquo; people, I don&rsquo;t see why you can&rsquo;t say
      anything you want to, to &lsquo;em!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, Georgie. And you haven&rsquo;t answered me whether you said that dreadful
      thing he says you did.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well&mdash;&rdquo; said Georgie. &ldquo;Anyway, he said somep&rsquo;m&rsquo; to me that made me
      mad.&rdquo; And upon this point he offered no further details; he would not
      explain to his mother that what had made him &ldquo;mad&rdquo; was Mr. Smith&rsquo;s hasty
      condemnation of herself: &ldquo;Your mother ought to be ashamed,&rdquo; and, &ldquo;A woman
      that lets a bad boy like you&mdash;&rdquo; Georgie did not even consider
      excusing himself by quoting these insolences.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel stroked his head. &ldquo;They were terrible words for you to use, dear.
      From his letter he doesn&rsquo;t seem a very tactful person, but&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s just riffraff,&rdquo; said Georgie.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mustn&rsquo;t say so,&rdquo; his mother gently agreed &ldquo;Where did you learn those
      bad words he speaks of? Where did you hear any one use them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;ve heard &lsquo;em several places. I guess Uncle George Amberson was
      the first I ever heard say &lsquo;em. Uncle George Amberson said &lsquo;em to papa
      once. Papa didn&rsquo;t like it, but Uncle George was just laughin&rsquo; at papa, an&rsquo;
      then he said &lsquo;em while he was laughin&rsquo;.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That was wrong of him,&rdquo; she said, but almost instinctively he detected
      the lack of conviction in her tone. It was Isabel&rsquo;s great failing that
      whatever an Amberson did seemed right to her, especially if the Amberson
      was either her brother George, or her son George. She knew that she should
      be more severe with the latter now, but severity with him was beyond her
      power; and the Reverend Malloch Smith had succeeded only in rousing her
      resentment against himself. Georgie&rsquo;s symmetrical face&mdash;altogether an
      Amberson face&mdash;had looked never more beautiful to her. It always
      looked unusually beautiful when she tried to be severe with him. &ldquo;You must
      promise me,&rdquo; she said feebly, &ldquo;never to use those bad words again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I promise not to,&rdquo; he said promptly&mdash;and he whispered an immediate
      codicil under his breath: &ldquo;Unless I get mad at somebody!&rdquo; This satisfied a
      code according to which, in his own sincere belief, he never told lies.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s a good boy,&rdquo; she said, and he ran out to the yard, his punishment
      over. Some admiring friends were gathered there; they had heard of his
      adventure, knew of the note, and were waiting to see what was going to
      &ldquo;happen&rdquo; to him. They hoped for an account of things, and also that he
      would allow them to &ldquo;take turns&rdquo; riding his pony to the end of the alley
      and back.
    </p>
    <p>
      They were really his henchmen: Georgie was a lord among boys. In fact, he
      was a personage among certain sorts of grown people, and was often fawned
      upon; the alley negroes delighted in him, chuckled over him, flattered him
      slavishly. For that matter, he often heard well-dressed people speaking of
      him admiringly: a group of ladies once gathered about him on the pavement
      where he was spinning a top. &ldquo;I know this is Georgie!&rdquo; one exclaimed, and
      turned to the others with the impressiveness of a showman. &ldquo;Major
      Amberson&rsquo;s only grandchild!&rdquo; The others said, &ldquo;It is?&rdquo; and made clicking
      sounds with their mouths; two of them loudly whispering, &ldquo;So handsome!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie, annoyed because they kept standing upon the circle he had chalked
      for his top, looked at them coldly and offered a suggestion:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, go hire a hall!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As an Amberson, he was already a public character, and the story of his
      adventure in the Reverend Malloch Smith&rsquo;s front yard became a town topic.
      Many people glanced at him with great distaste, thereafter, when they
      chanced to encounter him, which meant nothing to Georgie, because he
      innocently believed most grown people to be necessarily cross-looking as a
      normal phenomenon resulting from the adult state; and he failed to
      comprehend that the distasteful glances had any personal bearing upon
      himself. If he had perceived such a bearing, he would have been affected
      only so far, probably, as to mutter, &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo; Possibly he would have
      shouted it; and, certainly, most people believed a story that went round
      the town just after Mrs. Amberson&rsquo;s funeral, when Georgie was eleven.
      Georgie was reported to have differed with the undertaker about the
      seating of the family; his indignant voice had become audible: &ldquo;Well, who
      is the most important person at my own grandmother&rsquo;s funeral?&rdquo; And later
      he had projected his head from the window of the foremost mourners&rsquo;
      carriage, as the undertaker happened to pass.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There were people&mdash;grown people they were&mdash;who expressed
      themselves longingly: they did hope to live to see the day, they said,
      when that boy would get his come-upance! (They used that honest word, so
      much better than &ldquo;deserts,&rdquo; and not until many years later to be more
      clumsily rendered as &ldquo;what is coming to him.&rdquo;) Something was bound to take
      him down, some day, and they only wanted to be there! But Georgie heard
      nothing of this, and the yearners for his taking down went unsatisfied,
      while their yearning grew the greater as the happy day of fulfilment was
      longer and longer postponed. His grandeur was not diminished by the
      Malloch Smith story; the rather it was increased, and among other children
      (especially among little girls) there was added to the prestige of his
      gilded position that diabolical glamour which must inevitably attend a boy
      who has told a minister to go to hell.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0003" id="link2HCH0003">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
