<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 22</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXII</h2>
    <p>
      George took off his dressing-gown and put on a collar and a tie, his
      fingers shaking so that the tie was not his usual success; then he picked
      up his coat and waistcoat, and left the room while still in process of
      donning them, fastening the buttons, as he ran down the front stairs to
      the door. It was not until he reached the middle of the street that he
      realized that he had forgotten his hat; and he paused for an irresolute
      moment, during which his eye wandered, for no reason, to the Fountain of
      Neptune. This castiron replica of too elaborate sculpture stood at the
      next corner, where the Major had placed it when the Addition was laid out
      so long ago. The street corners had been shaped to conform with the great
      octagonal basin, which was no great inconvenience for horse-drawn
      vehicles, but a nuisance to speeding automobiles; and, even as George
      looked, one of the latter, coming too fast, saved itself only by a
      dangerous skid as it rounded the fountain. This skid was to George&rsquo;s
      liking, though he would have been more pleased to see the car go over, for
      he was wishing grief and destruction, just then, upon all the automobiles
      in the world.
    </p>
    <p>
      His eyes rested a second or two longer upon the Fountain of Neptune, not
      an enlivening sight even in the shielding haze of autumn twilight. For
      more than a year no water had run in the fountain: the connections had
      been broken, and the Major was evasive about restorations, even when
      reminded by his grandson that a dry fountain is as gay as a dry fish. Soot
      streaks and a thousand pits gave Neptune the distinction, at least, of
      leprosy, which the mermaids associated with him had been consistent in
      catching; and his trident had been so deeply affected as to drop its
      prongs. Altogether, this heavy work of heavy art, smoked dry, hugely
      scabbed, cracked, and crumbling, was a dismal sight to the distracted eye
      of George Amberson Minafer, and its present condition of craziness may
      have added a mite to his own. His own was sufficient, with no additions,
      however, as he stood looking at the Johnsons&rsquo; house and those houses on
      both sides of it&mdash;that row of riffraff dwellings he had thought so
      damnable, the day when he stood in his grandfather&rsquo;s yard, staring at
      them, after hearing what his Aunt Amelia said of the &ldquo;talk&rdquo; about his
      mother.
    </p>
    <p>
      He decided that he needed no hat for the sort of call he intended to make,
      and went forward hurriedly. Mrs. Johnson was at home, the Irish girl who
      came to the door informed him, and he was left to await the lady, in a
      room like an elegant well&mdash;the Johnsons&rsquo; &ldquo;reception room&rdquo;: floor
      space, nothing to mention; walls, blue calcimined; ceiling, twelve feet
      from the floor; inside shutters and gray lace curtains; five gilt chairs,
      a brocaded sofa, soiled, and an inlaid walnut table, supporting two tall
      alabaster vases; a palm, with two leaves, dying in a corner.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Johnson came in, breathing noticeably; and her round head, smoothly
      but economically decorated with the hair of an honest woman, seemed to be
      lingering far in the background of the Alpine bosom which took precedence
      of the rest of her everywhere; but when she was all in the room, it was to
      be seen that her breathing was the result of hospitable haste to greet the
      visitor, and her hand, not so dry as Neptune&rsquo;s Fountain, suggested that
      she had paused for only the briefest ablutions. George accepted this cold,
      damp lump mechanically.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Amberson&mdash;I mean Mr. Minafer!&rdquo; she exclaimed. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m really
      delighted: I understood you asked for me. Mr. Johnson&rsquo;s out of the city,
      but Charlie&rsquo;s downtown and I&rsquo;m looking for him at any minute, now, and
      he&rsquo;ll be so pleased that you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t want to see Charlie,&rdquo; George said. &ldquo;I want&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do sit down,&rdquo; the hospitable lady urged him, seating herself upon the
      sofa. &ldquo;Do sit down.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, I thank you. I wish&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Surely you&rsquo;re not going to run away again, when you&rsquo;ve just come. Do sit
      down, Mr. Minafer. I hope you&rsquo;re all well at your house and at the dear
      old Major&rsquo;s, too. He&rsquo;s looking&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Johnson&rdquo; George said, in a strained loud voice which arrested her
      attention immediately, so that she was abruptly silent, leaving her
      surprised mouth open. She had already been concealing some astonishment at
      this unexampled visit, however, and the condition of George&rsquo;s ordinarily
      smooth hair (for he had overlooked more than his hat) had not alleviated
      her perplexity. &ldquo;Mrs. Johnson,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;I have come to ask you a few
      questions which I would like you to answer, if you please.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She became grave at once. &ldquo;Certainly, Mr. Minafer. Anything I can&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He interrupted sternly, yet his voice shook in spite of its sternness.
      &ldquo;You were talking with my Aunt Fanny about my mother this afternoon.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this Mrs. Johnson uttered an involuntary gasp, but she recovered
      herself. &ldquo;Then I&rsquo;m sure our conversation was a very pleasant one, if we
      were talking of your mother, because&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Again he interrupted. &ldquo;My aunt has told me what the conversation virtually
      was, and I don&rsquo;t mean to waste any time, Mrs. Johnson. You were talking
      about a&mdash;&rdquo; George&rsquo;s shoulders suddenly heaved uncontrollably; but he
      went fiercely on: &ldquo;You were discussing a scandal that involved my mother&rsquo;s
      name.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Minafer!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t that the truth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t feel called upon to answer, Mr. Minafer,&rdquo; she said with visible
      agitation. &ldquo;I do not consider that you have any right&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My aunt told me you repeated this scandal to her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think your aunt can have said that,&rdquo; Mrs. Johnson returned
      sharply. &ldquo;I did not repeat a scandal of any kind to your aunt and I think
      you are mistaken in saying she told you I did. We may, have discussed some
      matters that have been a topic of comment about town&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo; George cried. &ldquo;I think you may have! That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m here about,
      and what I intend to&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t tell me what you intend, please,&rdquo; Mrs. Johnson interrupted crisply.
      &ldquo;And I should prefer that you would not make your voice quite so loud in
      this house, which I happen to own. Your aunt may have told you&mdash;though
      I think it would have been very unwise in her if she did, and not very
      considerate of me&mdash;she may have told you that we discussed some such
      topic as I have mentioned, and possibly that would have been true. If I
      talked it over with her, you may be sure I spoke in the most charitable
      spirit, and without sharing in other people&rsquo;s disposition to put an evil
      interpretation on what may, be nothing more than unfortunate appearances
      and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My God!&rdquo; said George. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t stand this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have the option of dropping the subject,&rdquo; Mrs. Johnson suggested
      tartly, and she added: &ldquo;Or of leaving the house.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll do that soon enough, but first I mean to know&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am perfectly willing to tell you anything you wish if you will remember
      to ask it quietly. I&rsquo;ll also take the liberty of reminding you that I had
      a perfect right to discuss the subject with your aunt. Other people may be
      less considerate in not confining their discussion of it, as I have, to
      charitable views expressed only to a member of the family. Other people&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Other people!&rdquo; the unhappy George repeated viciously. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s what I want
      to know about&mdash;these other people!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want to ask you about them. You say you know of other people who talk
      about this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I presume they do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How many?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want to know how many other people talk about it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dear, dear!&rdquo; she protested. &ldquo;How should I know that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Haven&rsquo;t you heard anybody mention it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I presume so.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, how many have you heard?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Johnson was becoming more annoyed than apprehensive, and she showed
      it. &ldquo;Really, this isn&rsquo;t a court-room,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;And I&rsquo;m not a defendant
      in a libel-suit, either!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The unfortunate young man lost what remained of his balance. &ldquo;You may be!&rdquo;
       he cried. &ldquo;I intend to know just who&rsquo;s dared to say these things, if I
      have to force my way into every house in town, and I&rsquo;m going to make them
      take every word of it back! I mean to know the name of every slanderer
      that&rsquo;s spoken of this matter to you and of every tattler you&rsquo;ve passed it
      on to yourself. I mean to know&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll know something pretty quick!&rdquo; she said, rising with difficulty;
      and her voice was thick with the sense of insult. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll know that you&rsquo;re
      out in the street. Please to leave my house!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George stiffened sharply. Then he bowed, and strode out of the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Three minutes later, disheveled and perspiring, but cold all over, he
      burst into his Uncle George&rsquo;s room at the Major&rsquo;s without knocking.
      Amberson was dressing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good gracious, Georgie!&rdquo; he exclaimed. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s up?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve just come from Mrs. Johnson&rsquo;s&mdash;across the street,&rdquo; George
      panted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have your own tastes!&rdquo; was Amberson&rsquo;s comment. &ldquo;But curious as they
      are, you ought to do something better with your hair, and button your
      waistcoat to the right buttons&mdash;even for Mrs. Johnson! What were you
      doing over there?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She told me to leave the house,&rdquo; George said desperately. &ldquo;I went there
      because Aunt Fanny told me the whole town was talking about my mother and
      that man Morgan&mdash;that they say my mother is going to marry him and
      that proves she was too fond of him before my father died&mdash;she said
      this Mrs. Johnson was one that talked about it, and I went to her to ask
      who were the others.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson&rsquo;s jaw fell in dismay. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t tell me you did that!&rdquo; he said, in a
      low voice; and then, seeing that it was true, &ldquo;Oh, now you have done it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0023" id="link2HCH0023">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
