<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 23</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIII</h2>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve &lsquo;done it&rsquo;?&rdquo; George cried. &ldquo;What do you mean: I&rsquo;ve done it? And what
      have I done?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson had collapsed into an easy chair beside his dressing-table, the
      white evening tie he had been about to put on dangling from his hand,
      which had fallen limply on the arm of the chair. The tie dropped to the
      floor before he replied; and the hand that had held it was lifted to
      stroke his graying hair reflectively. &ldquo;By Jove!&rdquo; he muttered. &ldquo;That is too
      bad!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George folded his arms bitterly. &ldquo;Will you kindly answer my question? What
      have I done that wasn&rsquo;t honourable and right? Do you think these riffraff
      can go about bandying my mother&rsquo;s name&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They can now,&rdquo; said Amberson. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know if they could before, but
      they certainly can now!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean by that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His uncle sighed profoundly, picked up his tie and, preoccupied with
      despondency, twisted the strip of white lawn till it became unwearable.
      Meanwhile, he tried to enlighten his nephew. &ldquo;Gossip is never fatal,
      Georgie,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;until it is denied. Gossip goes on about every human
      being alive and about all the dead that are alive enough to be remembered,
      and yet almost never does any harm until some defender makes a
      controversy. Gossip&rsquo;s a nasty thing, but it&rsquo;s sickly, and if people of
      good intentions will let it entirely alone, it will die, ninety-nine times
      out of a hundred.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;See here,&rdquo; George said: &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t come to listen to any generalizing dose
      of philosophy! I ask you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You asked me what you&rsquo;ve done, and I&rsquo;m telling you.&rdquo; Amberson gave him a
      melancholy smile, continuing: &ldquo;Suffer me to do it in my own way. Fanny
      says there&rsquo;s been talk about your mother, and that Mrs. Johnson does some
      of it. I don&rsquo;t know, because naturally nobody would come to me with such
      stuff or mention it before me; but it&rsquo;s presumably true&mdash;I suppose it
      is. I&rsquo;ve seen Fanny with Mrs. Johnson quite a lot; and that old lady is a
      notorious gossip, and that&rsquo;s why she ordered you out of her house when you
      pinned her down that she&rsquo;d been gossiping. I have a suspicion Mrs. Johnson
      has been quite a comfort to Fanny in their long talks; but she&rsquo;ll probably
      quit speaking to her over this, because Fanny told you. I suppose it&rsquo;s
      true that the &lsquo;whole town,&rsquo; a lot of others, that is, do share in the
      gossip. In this town, naturally, anything about any Amberson has always
      been a stone dropped into the centre of a pond, and a lie would send the
      ripples as far as a truth would. I&rsquo;ve been on a steamer when the story
      went all over the boat, the second day out,&rsquo; that the prettiest girl on
      board didn&rsquo;t have any ears; and you can take it as a rule that when a
      woman&rsquo;s past thirty-five the prettier her hair is, the more certain you
      are to meet somebody with reliable information that it&rsquo;s a wig. You can be
      sure that for many years there&rsquo;s been more gossip in this place about the
      Ambersons than about any other family. I dare say it isn&rsquo;t so much so now
      as it used to be, because the town got too big long ago, but it&rsquo;s the
      truth that the more prominent you are the more gossip there is about you,
      and the more people would like to pull you down. Well, they can&rsquo;t do it as
      long as you refuse to know what gossip there is about you. But the minute
      you notice it, it&rsquo;s got you! I&rsquo;m not speaking of certain kinds of slander
      that sometimes people have got to take to the courts; I&rsquo;m talking of the
      wretched buzzing the Mrs. John-sons do&mdash;the thing you seem to have
      such a horror of&mdash;people &lsquo;talking&rsquo;&mdash;the kind of thing that has
      assailed your mother. People who have repeated a slander either get
      ashamed or forget it, if they&rsquo;re let alone. Challenge them, and in
      self-defense they believe everything they&rsquo;ve said: they&rsquo;d rather believe
      you a sinner than believe themselves liars, naturally. Submit to gossip
      and you kill it; fight it and you make it strong. People will forget
      almost any slander except one that&rsquo;s been fought.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is that all?&rdquo; George asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose so,&rdquo; his uncle murmured sadly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, then, may I ask what you&rsquo;d have done, in my place?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not sure, Georgie. When I was your age I was like you in many ways,
      especially in not being very cool-headed, so I can&rsquo;t say. Youth can&rsquo;t be
      trusted for much, except asserting itself and fighting and making love.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indeed!&rdquo; George snorted. &ldquo;May I ask what you think I ought to have done?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;Nothing?&rdquo; George echoed, mocking bitterly &ldquo;I suppose you think I mean to
      let my mother&rsquo;s good name&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your mother&rsquo;s good name!&rdquo; Amberson cut him off impatiently. &ldquo;Nobody has a
      good name in a bad mouth. Nobody has a good name in a silly mouth, either.
      Well, your mother&rsquo;s name was in some silly mouths, and all you&rsquo;ve done was
      to go and have a scene with the worst old woman gossip in the town&mdash;a
      scene that&rsquo;s going to make her into a partisan against your mother,
      whereas she was a mere prattler before. Don&rsquo;t you suppose she&rsquo;ll be all
      over town with this to-morrow? To-morrow? Why, she&rsquo;ll have her telephone
      going to-night as long as any of her friends are up! People that never
      heard anything about this are going to hear it all now, with
      embellishments. And she&rsquo;ll see to it that everybody who&rsquo;s hinted anything
      about poor Isabel will know that you&rsquo;re on the warpath; and that will put
      them on the defensive and make them vicious. The story will grow as it
      spreads and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George unfolded his arms to strike his right fist into his left palm. &ldquo;But
      do you suppose I&rsquo;m going to tolerate such things?&rdquo; he shouted. &ldquo;What do
      you suppose I&rsquo;ll be doing?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing helpful.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, you think so, do you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You can do absolutely nothing,&rdquo; said Amberson. &ldquo;Nothing of any use. The
      more you do the more harm you&rsquo;ll do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll see! I&rsquo;m going to stop this thing if I have to force my way into
      every house on National Avenue and Amberson Boulevard!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His uncle laughed rather sourly, but made no other comment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, what do you propose to do?&rdquo; George demanded. &ldquo;Do you propose to sit
      there&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&mdash;and let this riffraff bandy my mother&rsquo;s good name back and forth
      among them? Is that what you propose to do?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all I can do,&rdquo; Amberson returned. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all any of us can do now:
      just sit still and hope that the thing may die down in time, in spite of
      your stirring up that awful old woman.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George drew a long breath, then advanced and stood close before his uncle.
      &ldquo;Didn&rsquo;t you understand me when I told you that people are saying my mother
      means to marry this man?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, I understood you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You say that my going over there has made matters worse,&rdquo; George went on.
      &ldquo;How about it if such a&mdash;such an unspeakable marriage did take place?
      Do you think that would make people believe they&rsquo;d been wrong in saying&mdash;you
      know what they say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Amberson deliberately; &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t believe it would. There&rsquo;d be
      more badness in the bad mouths and more silliness in the silly mouths, I
      dare say. But it wouldn&rsquo;t hurt Isabel and Eugene, if they never heard of
      it; and if they did hear of it, then they could take their choice between
      placating gossip or living for their own happiness. If they have decided
      to marry&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George almost staggered. &ldquo;Good God!&rdquo; he gasped. &ldquo;You speak of it calmly!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson looked up at him inquiringly. &ldquo;Why shouldn&rsquo;t they marry if they
      want to?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s their own affair.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why shouldn&rsquo;t they?&rdquo; George echoed. &ldquo;Why shouldn&rsquo;t they?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. Why shouldn&rsquo;t they? I don&rsquo;t see anything precisely monstrous about
      two people getting married when they&rsquo;re both free and care about each
      other. What&rsquo;s the matter with their marrying?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It would be monstrous!&rdquo; George shouted. &ldquo;Monstrous even if this horrible
      thing hadn&rsquo;t happened, but now in the face of this&mdash;oh, that you can
      sit there and even speak of it! Your own sister! O God! Oh&mdash;&rdquo; He
      became incoherent, swinging away from Amberson and making for the door,
      wildly gesturing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For heaven&rsquo;s sake, don&rsquo;t be so theatrical!&rdquo; said his uncle, and then,
      seeing that George was leaving the room: &ldquo;Come back here. You mustn&rsquo;t
      speak to your mother of this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t &lsquo;tend to,&rdquo; George said indistinctly; and he plunged out into the
      big dimly lit hall. He passed his grandfather&rsquo;s room on the way to the
      stairs; and the Major was visible within, his white head brightly
      illumined by a lamp, as he bent low over a ledger upon his roll-top desk.
      He did not look up, and his grandson strode by the door, not really
      conscious of the old figure stooping at its tremulous work with long
      additions and subtractions that refused to balance as they used to. George
      went home and got a hat and overcoat without seeing either his mother or
      Fanny. Then he left word that he would be out for dinner, and hurried away
      from the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      He walked the dark streets of Amberson Addition for an hour, then went
      downtown and got coffee at a restaurant. After that he walked through the
      lighted parts of the town until ten o&rsquo;clock, when he turned north and came
      back to the purlieus of the Addition. He strode through the length and
      breadth of it again, his hat pulled down over his forehead, his overcoat
      collar turned up behind. He walked fiercely, though his feet ached, but by
      and by he turned homeward, and, when he reached the Major&rsquo;s, went in and
      sat upon the steps of the huge stone veranda in front&mdash;an obscure
      figure in that lonely and repellent place. All lights were out at the
      Major&rsquo;s, and finally, after twelve, he saw his mother&rsquo;s window darken at
      home.
    </p>
    <p>
      He waited half an hour longer, then crossed the front yards of the new
      houses and let himself noiselessly in the front door. The light in the
      hall had been left burning, and another in his own room, as he discovered
      when he got there. He locked the door quickly and without noise, but his
      fingers were still upon the key when there was a quick footfall in the
      hall outside.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Georgie, dear?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He went to the other end of the room before replying.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;d been wondering where you were, dear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Had you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a pause; then she said timidly: &ldquo;Wherever it was, I hope you had
      a pleasant evening.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After a silence, &ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; he said, without expression.
    </p>
    <p>
      Another silence followed before she spoke again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You wouldn&rsquo;t care to be kissed good-night, I suppose?&rdquo; And with a little
      flurry of placative laughter, she added: &ldquo;At your age, of course!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to bed, now,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Goodnight.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Another silence seemed blanker than those which had preceded it, and
      finally her voice came&mdash;it was blank, too.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After he was in bed his thoughts became more tumultuous than ever; while
      among all the inchoate and fragmentary sketches of this dreadful day, now
      rising before him, the clearest was of his uncle collapsed in a big chair
      with a white tie dangling from his hand; and one conviction, following
      upon that picture, became definite in George&rsquo;s mind: that his Uncle George
      Amberson was a hopeless dreamer from whom no help need be expected, an
      amiable imbecile lacking in normal impulses, and wholly useless in a
      struggle which required honour to be defended by a man of action.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then would return a vision of Mrs. Johnson&rsquo;s furious round head, set
      behind her great bosom like the sun far sunk on the horizon of a mountain
      plateau&mdash;and her crackling, asthmatic voice... &ldquo;Without sharing in
      other people&rsquo;s disposition to put an evil interpretation on what may be
      nothing more than unfortunate appearances.&rdquo;... &ldquo;Other people may be less
      considerate in not confining their discussion of it, as I have, to
      charitable views.&rdquo;... &ldquo;you&rsquo;ll know something pretty quick! You&rsquo;ll know
      you&rsquo;re out in the street.&rdquo;... And then George would get up again&mdash;and
      again&mdash;and pace the floor in his bare feet.
    </p>
    <p>
      That was what the tormented young man was doing when daylight came gauntly
      in at his window&mdash;pacing the floor, rubbing his head in his hands,
      and muttering:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It can&rsquo;t be true: this can&rsquo;t be happening to me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0024" id="link2HCH0024">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
