<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 34</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIV</h2>
    <p>
      There was one border section of the city which George never explored in
      his Sunday morning excursions. This was far out to the north where lay the
      new Elysian Fields of the millionaires, though he once went as far in that
      direction as the white house which Lucy had so admired long ago&mdash;her
      &ldquo;Beautiful House.&rdquo; George looked at it briefly and turned back, rumbling
      with an interior laugh of some grimness. The house was white no longer;
      nothing could be white which the town had reached, and the town reached
      far beyond the beautiful white house now. The owners had given up and
      painted it a despairing chocolate, suitable to the freight-yard life it
      was called upon to endure.
    </p>
    <p>
      George did not again risk going even so far as that, in the direction of
      the millionaires, although their settlement began at least two miles
      farther out. His thought of Lucy and her father was more a sensation than
      a thought, and may be compared to that of a convicted cashier beset by
      recollections of the bank he had pillaged&mdash;there are some thoughts to
      which one closes the mind. George had seen Eugene only once since their
      calamitous encounter. They had passed on opposite sides of the street,
      downtown; each had been aware of the other, and each had been aware that
      the other was aware of him, and yet each kept his eyes straight forward,
      and neither had shown a perceptible alteration of countenance. It seemed
      to George that he felt emanating from the outwardly imperturbable person
      of his mother&rsquo;s old friend a hate that was like a hot wind.
    </p>
    <p>
      At his mother&rsquo;s funeral and at the Major&rsquo;s he had been conscious that
      Eugene was there: though he had afterward no recollection of seeing him,
      and, while certain of his presence, was uncertain how he knew of it. Fanny
      had not told him, for she understood George well enough not to speak to
      him of Eugene or Lucy. Nowadays Fanny almost never saw either of them and
      seldom thought of them&mdash;so sly is the way of time with life. She was
      passing middle age, when old intensities and longings grow thin and
      flatten out, as Fanny herself was thinning and flattening out; and she was
      settling down contentedly to her apartment house intimacies. She was
      precisely suited by the table-d&rsquo;hote life, with its bridge, its variable
      alliances and shifting feuds, and the long whisperings of elderly ladies
      at corridor corners&mdash;those eager but suppressed conversations, all
      sibilance, of which the elevator boy declared he heard the words &ldquo;she
      said&rdquo; a million times and the word &ldquo;she,&rdquo; five million. The apartment
      house suited Fanny and swallowed her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The city was so big, now, that people disappeared into it unnoticed, and
      the disappearance of Fanny and her nephew was not exceptional. People no
      longer knew their neighbours as a matter of course; one lived for years
      next door to strangers&mdash;that sharpest of all the changes since the
      old days&mdash;and a friend would lose sight of a friend for a year, and
      not know it.
    </p>
    <p>
      One May day George thought he had a glimpse of Lucy. He was not certain,
      but he was sufficiently disturbed, in spite of his uncertainty. A
      promotion in his work now frequently took him out of town for a week, or
      longer, and it was upon his return from one of these absences that he had
      the strange experience. He had walked home from the station, and as he
      turned the corner which brought him in sight of the apartment house
      entrance, though two blocks distant from it, he saw a charming little
      figure come out, get into a shiny landaulet automobile, and drive away.
      Even at that distance no one could have any doubt that the little figure
      was charming; and the height, the quickness and decision of motion, even
      the swift gesture of a white glove toward the chauffeur&mdash;all were
      characteristic of Lucy. George was instantly subjected to a shock of
      indefinable nature, yet definitely a shock: he did not know what he felt&mdash;but
      he knew that he felt. Heat surged over him: probably he would not have
      come face to face with her if the restoration of all the ancient Amberson
      magnificence could have been his reward. He went on slowly, his knees
      shaky.
    </p>
    <p>
      But he found Fanny not at home; she had been out all afternoon; and there
      was no record of any caller&mdash;and he began to wonder, then to doubt if
      the small lady he had seen in the distance was Lucy. It might as well have
      been, he said to himself&mdash;since any one who looked like her could
      give him &ldquo;a jolt like that!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lucy had not left a card. She never left one when she called on Fanny;
      though she did not give her reasons a quite definite form in her own mind.
      She came seldom; this was but the third time that year, and, when she did
      come, George was not mentioned either by her hostess or by herself&mdash;an
      oddity contrived between the two ladies without either of them realizing
      how odd it was. For, naturally, while Fanny was with Lucy, Fanny thought
      of George, and what time Lucy had George&rsquo;s aunt before her eyes she could
      not well avoid the thought of him. Consequently, both looked absent-minded
      as they talked, and each often gave a wrong answer which the other
      consistently failed to notice.
    </p>
    <p>
      At other times Lucy&rsquo;s thoughts of George were anything but continuous, and
      weeks went by when he was not consciously in her mind at all. Her life was
      a busy one: she had the big house &ldquo;to keep up&rdquo;; she had a garden to keep
      up, too, a large and beautiful garden; she represented her father as a
      director for half a dozen public charity organizations, and did private
      charity work of her own, being a proxy mother of several large families;
      and she had &ldquo;danced down,&rdquo; as she said, groups from eight or nine classes
      of new graduates returned from the universities, without marrying any of
      them, but she still danced&mdash;and still did not marry.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her father, observing this circumstance happily, yet with some
      hypocritical concern, spoke of it to her one day as they stood in her
      garden. &ldquo;I suppose I&rsquo;d want to shoot him,&rdquo; he said, with attempted
      lightness. &ldquo;But I mustn&rsquo;t be an old pig. I&rsquo;d build you a beautiful house
      close by&mdash;just over yonder.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no! That would be like&mdash;&rdquo; she began impulsively; then checked
      herself. George Amberson&rsquo;s comparison of the Georgian house to the
      Amberson Mansion had come into her mind, and she thought that another new
      house, built close by for her, would be like the house the Major built for
      Isabel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Like what?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing.&rdquo; She looked serious, and when he reverted to his idea of &ldquo;some
      day&rdquo; grudgingly surrendering her up to a suitor, she invented a legend.
      &ldquo;Did you ever hear the Indian name for that little grove of beech trees on
      the other side of the house?&rdquo; she asked him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No&mdash;and you never did either!&rdquo; he laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be so sure! I read a great deal more than I used to&mdash;getting
      ready for my bookish days when I&rsquo;ll have to do something solid in the
      evenings and won&rsquo;t be asked to dance any more, even by the very youngest
      boys who think it&rsquo;s a sporting event to dance with the oldest of the
      &lsquo;older girls&rsquo;. The name of the grove was &lsquo;Loma-Nashah&rsquo; and it means
      &lsquo;They-Couldn&rsquo;t-Help-It&rsquo;.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t sound like it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indian names don&rsquo;t. There was a bad Indian chief lived in the grove
      before the white settlers came. He was the worst Indian that ever lived,
      and his name was&mdash;it was &lsquo;Vendonah.&rsquo; That means
      &lsquo;Rides-Down-Everything&rsquo;.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His name was Vendonah, the same thing as Rides-Down-Everything.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see,&rdquo; said Eugene thoughtfully. He gave her a quick look and then fixed
      his eyes upon the end of the garden path. &ldquo;Go on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Vendonah was an unspeakable case,&rdquo; Lucy continued. &ldquo;He was so proud that
      he wore iron shoes and he walked over people&rsquo;s faces with them. he was
      always killing people that way, and so at last the tribe decided that it
      wasn&rsquo;t a good enough excuse for him that he was young and inexperienced&mdash;he&rsquo;d
      have to go. They took him down to the river, and put him in a canoe, and
      pushed him out from shore; and then they ran along the bank and wouldn&rsquo;t
      let him land, until at last the current carried the canoe out into the
      middle, and then on down to the ocean, and he never got back. They didn&rsquo;t
      want him back, of course, and if he&rsquo;d been able to manage it, they&rsquo;d have
      put him in another canoe and shoved him out into the river again. But
      still, they didn&rsquo;t elect another chief in his place. Other tribes thought
      that was curious, and wondered about it a lot, but finally they came to
      the conclusion that the beech grove people were afraid a new chief might
      turn out to be a bad Indian, too, and wear iron shoes like Vendonah. But
      they were wrong, because the real reason was that the tribe had led such
      an exciting life under Vendonah that they couldn&rsquo;t settle down to anything
      tamer. He was awful, but he always kept things happening&mdash;terrible
      things, of course. They hated him, but they weren&rsquo;t able to discover any
      other warrior that they wanted to make chief in his place. I suppose it
      was a little like drinking a glass of too strong wine and then trying to
      take the taste out of your mouth with barley water. They couldn&rsquo;t help
      feeling that way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see,&rdquo; said Eugene. &ldquo;So that&rsquo;s why they named the place
      &lsquo;They-Couldn&rsquo;t-Help-It&rsquo;!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It must have been.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And so you&rsquo;re going to stay here in your garden,&rdquo; he said musingly. &ldquo;You
      think it&rsquo;s better to keep on walking these sunshiny gravel paths between
      your flower-beds, and growing to look like a pensive garden lady in a
      Victorian engraving.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose I&rsquo;m like the tribe that lived here, papa. I had too much
      unpleasant excitement. It was unpleasant&mdash;but it was excitement. I
      don&rsquo;t want any more; in fact, I don&rsquo;t want anything but you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t?&rdquo; He looked at her keenly, and she laughed and shook her head;
      but he seemed perplexed, rather doubtful. &ldquo;What was the name of the
      grove?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;The Indian name, I mean.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mola-Haha.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, it wasn&rsquo;t; that wasn&rsquo;t the name you said.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve forgotten.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see you have,&rdquo; he said, his look of perplexity remaining. &ldquo;Perhaps you
      remember the chief&rsquo;s name better.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She shook her head again. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this he laughed, but not very heartily, and walked slowly to the house,
      leaving her bending over a rose-bush, and a shade more pensive than the
      most pensive garden lady in any Victorian engraving.
    </p>
    <p>
      ... Next day, it happened that this same &ldquo;Vendonah&rdquo; or
      &ldquo;Rides-Down-Everything&rdquo; became the subject of a chance conversation
      between Eugene and his old friend Kinney, father of the fire-topped Fred.
      The two gentlemen found themselves smoking in neighbouring leather chairs
      beside a broad window at the club, after lunch.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Kinney had remarked that he expected to get his family established at
      the seashore by the Fourth of July, and, following a train of thought, he
      paused and chuckled. &ldquo;Fourth of July reminds me,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Have you heard
      what that Georgie Minafer is doing?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, I haven&rsquo;t,&rdquo; said Eugene, and his friend failed to notice the
      crispness of the utterance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, sir,&rdquo; Kinney chuckled again, &ldquo;it beats the devil! My boy Fred told
      me about it yesterday. He&rsquo;s a friend of this young Henry Akers, son of F.
      P. Akers of the Akers Chemical Company. It seems this young Akers asked
      Fred if he knew a fellow named Minafer, because he knew Fred had always
      lived here, and young Akers had heard some way that Minafer used to be an
      old family name here, and was sort of curious about it. Well, sir, you
      remember this young Georgie sort of disappeared, after his grandfather&rsquo;s
      death, and nobody seemed to know much what had become of him&mdash;though
      I did hear, once or twice, that he was still around somewhere. Well, sir,
      he&rsquo;s working for the Akers Chemical Company, out at their plant on the
      Thomasvile Road.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused, seeming to reserve something to be delivered only upon inquiry,
      and Eugene offered him the expected question, but only after a cold glance
      through the nose-glasses he had lately found it necessary to adopt. &ldquo;What
      does he do?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Kinney laughed and slapped the arm of his chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s a nitroglycerin expert!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was gratified to see that Eugene was surprised, if not, indeed, a
      little startled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s what?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s an expert on nitroglycerin. Doesn&rsquo;t that beat the devil! Yes, sir!
      Young Akers told Fred that this George Minafer had worked like a houn&rsquo;-dog
      ever since he got started out at the works. They have a special plant for
      nitroglycerin, way off from the main plant, o&rsquo; course&mdash;in the woods
      somewhere&mdash;and George Minafer&rsquo;s been working there, and lately they
      put him in charge of it. He oversees shooting oil-wells, too, and shoots
      &lsquo;em himself, sometimes. They aren&rsquo;t allowed to carry it on the railroads,
      you know&mdash;have to team it. Young Akers says George rides around over
      the bumpy roads, sitting on as much as three hundred quarts of
      nitroglycerin! My Lord! Talk about romantic tumbles! If he gets blown
      sky-high some day he won&rsquo;t have a bigger drop, when he comes down, than
      he&rsquo;s already had! Don&rsquo;t it beat the devil! Young Akers said he&rsquo;s got all
      the nerve there is in the world. Well, he always did have plenty of that&mdash;from
      the time he used to ride around here on his white pony and fight all the
      Irish boys in Can-Town, with his long curls all handy to be pulled out.
      Akers says he gets a fair salary, and I should think he ought to! Seems to
      me I&rsquo;ve heard the average life in that sort of work is somewhere around
      four years, and agents don&rsquo;t write any insurance at all for nitroglycerin
      experts. Hardly!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Eugene. &ldquo;I suppose not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Kinney rose to go. &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s a pretty funny thing&mdash;pretty odd, I
      mean&mdash;and I suppose it would be pass-around-the-hat for old Fanny
      Minafer if he blew up. Fred told me that they&rsquo;re living in some apartment
      house, and said Georgie supports her. He was going to study law, but
      couldn&rsquo;t earn enough that way to take care of Fanny, so he gave it up.
      Fred&rsquo;s wife told him all this. Says Fanny doesn&rsquo;t do anything but play
      bridge these days. Got to playing too high for awhile and lost more than
      she wanted to tell Georgie about, and borrowed a little from old Frank
      Bronson. Paid him back, though. Don&rsquo;t know how Fred&rsquo;s wife heard it. Women
      do&rsquo; hear the darndest things!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They do,&rdquo; Eugene agreed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I thought you&rsquo;d probably heard about it&mdash;thought most likely Fred&rsquo;s
      wife might have said something to your daughter, especially as they&rsquo;re
      cousins.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m off to the store,&rdquo; said Mr. Kinney briskly; yet he lingered. &ldquo;I
      suppose we&rsquo;ll all have to club in and keep old Fanny out of the poorhouse
      if he does blow up. From all I hear it&rsquo;s usually only a question of time.
      They say she hasn&rsquo;t got anything else to depend on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well&mdash;I wondered&mdash;&rdquo; Kinney hesitated. &ldquo;I was wondering why you
      hadn&rsquo;t thought of finding something around your works for him. They say
      he&rsquo;s an all-fired worker and he certainly does seem to have hid some
      decent stuff in him under all his damfoolishness. And you used to be such
      a tremendous friend of the family&mdash;I thought perhaps you&mdash;of
      course I know he&rsquo;s a queer lot&mdash;I know&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, I think he is,&rdquo; said Eugene. &ldquo;No. I haven&rsquo;t anything to offer him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose not,&rdquo; Kinney returned thoughtfully, as he went out. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
      know that I would myself. Well, we&rsquo;ll probably see his name in the papers
      some day if he stays with that job!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      However, the nitroglycerin expert of whom they spoke did not get into the
      papers as a consequence of being blown up, although his daily life was
      certainly a continuous exposure to that risk. Destiny has a constant
      passion for the incongruous, and it was George&rsquo;s lot to manipulate
      wholesale quantities of terrific and volatile explosives in safety, and to
      be laid low by an accident so commonplace and inconsequent that it was a
      comedy. Fate had reserved for him the final insult of riding him down
      under the wheels of one of those juggernauts at which he had once shouted
      &ldquo;Git a hoss!&rdquo; Nevertheless, Fate&rsquo;s ironic choice for Georgie&rsquo;s undoing was
      not a big and swift and momentous car, such as Eugene manufactured; it was
      a specimen of the hustling little type that was flooding the country, the
      cheapest, commonest, hardiest little car ever made.
    </p>
    <p>
      The accident took place upon a Sunday morning, on a downtown crossing,
      with the streets almost empty, and no reason in the world for such a thing
      to happen. He had gone out for his Sunday morning walk, and he was
      thinking of an automobile at the very moment when the little car struck
      him; he was thinking of a shiny landaulet and a charming figure stepping
      into it, and of the quick gesture of a white glove toward the chauffeur,
      motioning him to go on. George heard a shout but did not look up, for he
      could not imagine anybody&rsquo;s shouting at him, and he was too engrossed in
      the question &ldquo;Was it Lucy?&rdquo; He could not decide, and his lack of decision
      in this matter probably superinduced a lack of decision in another, more
      pressingly vital. At the second and louder shout he did look up; and the
      car was almost on him; but he could not make up his mind if the charming
      little figure he had seen was Lucy&rsquo;s and he could not make up his mind
      whether to go backward or forward: these questions became entangled in his
      mind. Then, still not being able to decide which of two ways to go, he
      tried to go both&mdash;and the little car ran him down. It was not moving
      very rapidly, but it went all the way over George.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was conscious of gigantic violence; of roaring and jolting and
      concussion; of choking clouds of dust, shot with lightning, about his
      head; he heard snapping sounds as loud as shots from a small pistol, and
      was stabbed by excruciating pains in his legs. Then he became aware that
      the machine was being lifted off of him. People were gathering in a circle
      round him, gabbling.
    </p>
    <p>
      His forehead was bedewed with the sweat of anguish, and he tried to wipe
      off this dampness, but failed. He could not get his arm that far.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nev&rsquo; mind,&rdquo; a policeman said; and George could see above his eyes the
      skirts of the blue coat, covered with dust and sunshine. &ldquo;Amb&rsquo;lance be
      here in a minute. Nev&rsquo; mind tryin&rsquo; to move any. You want &lsquo;em to send for
      some special doctor?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo; George&rsquo;s lips formed the word.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Or to take you to some private hospital?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tell them to take me,&rdquo; he said faintly, &ldquo;to the City Hospital.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A&rsquo; right.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A smallish young man in a duster fidgeted among the crowd, explaining and
      protesting, and a strident voiced girl, his companion, supported his
      argument, declaring to everyone her willingness to offer testimony in any
      court of law that every blessed word he said was the God&rsquo;s truth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the fella that hit you,&rdquo; the policeman said, looking down on George.
      &ldquo;I guess he&rsquo;s right; you must of been thinkin&rsquo; about somep&rsquo;m&rsquo; or other.
      It&rsquo;s wunnerful the damage them little machines can do&mdash;you&rsquo;d never
      think it&mdash;but I guess they ain&rsquo;t much case ag&rsquo;in this fella that was
      drivin&rsquo; it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You bet your life they ain&rsquo;t no case on me!&rdquo; the young man in the duster
      agreed, with great bitterness. He came and stood at George&rsquo;s feet,
      addressing him heatedly: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry fer you all right, and I don&rsquo;t say I
      ain&rsquo;t. I hold nothin&rsquo; against you, but it wasn&rsquo;t any more my fault than
      the statehouse! You run into me, much as I run into you, and if you get
      well you ain&rsquo;t goin&rsquo; to get not one single cent out o&rsquo; me! This lady here
      was settin&rsquo; with me and we both yelled at you. Wasn&rsquo;t goin&rsquo; a step over
      eight mile an hour! I&rsquo;m perfectly willing to say I&rsquo;m sorry for you though,
      and so&rsquo;s the lady with me. We&rsquo;re both willing to say that much, but that&rsquo;s
      all, understand!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s drawn eyelids twitched; his misted glance rested fleetingly upon
      the two protesting motorists, and the old imperious spirit within him
      flickered up in a single word. Lying on his back in the middle of the
      street, where he was regarded as an increasing public as an unpleasant
      curiosity, he spoke this word clearly from a mouth filled with dust, and
      from lips smeared with blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a word which interested the policeman. When the ambulance clanged
      away, he turned to a fellow patrolman who had joined him. &ldquo;Funny what he
      says to the little cuss that done the damage. That&rsquo;s all he did call him&mdash;&lsquo;nothin&rsquo;
      else at all&mdash;and the cuss had broke both his legs fer him and
      God-knows-what-all!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wasn&rsquo;t here then. What was it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Riffraff!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0035" id="link2HCH0035">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
