<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 16</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVI</h2>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aunt Fanny doesn&rsquo;t look much better,&rdquo; George said to his mother, a few
      minutes after their arrival, on the night they got home. He stood with a
      towel in her doorway, concluding some sketchy ablutions before going
      downstairs to a supper which Fanny was hastily preparing for them. Isabel
      had not telegraphed; Fanny was taken by surprise when they drove up in a
      station cab at eleven o&rsquo;clock; and George instantly demanded &ldquo;a little
      decent food.&rdquo; (Some criticisms of his had publicly disturbed the composure
      of the dining-car steward four hours previously.) &ldquo;I never saw anybody
      take things so hard as she seems to,&rdquo; he observed, his voice muffled by
      the towel. &ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t she get over it at all? I thought she&rsquo;d feel better
      when we turned over the insurance to her&mdash;gave it to her absolutely,
      without any strings to it. She looks about a thousand years old!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She looks quite girlish, sometimes, though,&rdquo; his mother said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has she looked that way much since father&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not so much,&rdquo; Isabel said thoughtfully. &ldquo;But she will, as times goes on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Time&rsquo;ll have to hurry, then, it seems to me,&rdquo; George observed, returning
      to his own room.
    </p>
    <p>
      When they went down to the dining room, he pronounced acceptable the
      salmon salad, cold beef, cheese, and cake which Fanny made ready for them
      without disturbing the servants. The journey had fatigued Isabel, she ate
      nothing, but sat to observe with tired pleasure the manifestations of her
      son&rsquo;s appetite, meanwhile giving her sister-in-law a brief summary of the
      events of commencement. But presently she kissed them both good-night&mdash;taking
      care to kiss George lightly upon the side of his head, so as not to
      disturb his eating&mdash;and left aunt and nephew alone together.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It never was becoming to her to look pale,&rdquo; Fanny said absently, a few
      moments after Isabel&rsquo;s departure.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wha&rsquo;d you say, Aunt Fanny?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing. I suppose your mother&rsquo;s been being pretty gay? Going a lot?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How could she?&rdquo; George asked cheerfully. &ldquo;In mourning, of course all she
      could do was just sit around and look on. That&rsquo;s all Lucy could do either,
      for the matter of that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose so,&rdquo; his aunt assented. &ldquo;How did Lucy get home?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George regarded her with astonishment. &ldquo;Why, on the train with the rest of
      us, of course.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t mean that,&rdquo; Fanny explained. &ldquo;I meant from the station. Did you
      drive out to their house with her before you came here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. She drove home with her father, of course.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, I see. So Eugene came to the station to meet you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To meet us?&rdquo; George echoed, renewing his attack upon the salmon salad.
      &ldquo;How could he?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what you mean,&rdquo; Fanny said drearily, in the desolate voice
      that had become her habit. &ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t seen him while your mother&rsquo;s been
      away.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Naturally,&rdquo; said George. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s been East himself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this Fanny&rsquo;s drooping eyelids opened wide.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you see him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, naturally, since he made the trip home with us!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He did?&rdquo; she said sharply. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s been with you all the time?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No; only on the train and the last three days before we left. Uncle
      George got him to come.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fanny&rsquo;s eyelids drooped again, and she sat silent until George pushed back
      his chair and lit a cigarette, declaring his satisfaction with what she
      had provided. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a fine housekeeper,&rdquo; he said benevolently. &ldquo;You know
      how to make things look dainty as well as taste the right way. I don&rsquo;t
      believe you&rsquo;d stay single very long if some of the bachelors and widowers
      around town could just once see&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She did not hear him. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a little odd,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s odd?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your mother&rsquo;s not mentioning that Mr. Morgan had been with you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Didn&rsquo;t think of it, I suppose,&rdquo; said George carelessly; and, his
      benevolent mood increasing, he conceived the idea that a little harmless
      rallying might serve to elevate his aunt&rsquo;s drooping spirits. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll tell
      you something, in confidence,&rdquo; he said solemnly.
    </p>
    <p>
      She looked up, startled. &ldquo;What?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, it struck me that Mr. Morgan was looking pretty absent-minded, most
      of the time; and he certainly is dressing better than he used to. Uncle
      George told me he heard that the automobile factory had been doing quite
      well&mdash;won a race, too! I shouldn&rsquo;t be a bit surprised if all the
      young fellow had been waiting for was to know he had an assured income
      before he proposed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What &lsquo;young fellow&rsquo;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This young fellow Morgan,&rdquo; laughed George; &ldquo;Honestly, Aunt Fanny, I
      shouldn&rsquo;t be a bit surprised to have him request an interview with me any
      day, and declare that his intentions are honourable, and ask my permission
      to pay his addresses to you. What had I better tell him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fanny burst into tears.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good heavens!&rdquo; George cried. &ldquo;I was only teasing. I didn&rsquo;t mean&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me alone,&rdquo; she said lifelessly; and, continuing to weep, rose and
      began to clear away the dishes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Please, Aunt Fanny&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just let me alone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George was distressed. &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t mean anything, Aunt Fanny! I didn&rsquo;t know
      you&rsquo;d got so sensitive as all that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;d better go up to bed,&rdquo; she said desolately, going on with her work
      and her weeping.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Anyhow,&rdquo; he insisted, &ldquo;do let these things wait. Let the servants &lsquo;tend
      to the table in the morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, why not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just let me alone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, Lord!&rdquo; George groaned, going to the door. There he turned. &ldquo;See here,
      Aunt Fanny, there&rsquo;s not a bit of use your bothering about those dishes
      tonight. What&rsquo;s the use of a butler and three maids if&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just let me alone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He obeyed, and could still hear a pathetic sniffing from the dining room
      as he went up the stairs.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By George!&rdquo; he grunted, as he reached his own room; and his thought was
      that living with a person so sensitive to kindly raillery might prove
      lugubrious. He whistled, long and low, then went to the window and looked
      through the darkness to the great silhouette of his grandfather&rsquo;s house.
      Lights were burning over there, upstairs; probably his newly arrived uncle
      was engaged in talk with the Major.
    </p>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s glance lowered, resting casually upon the indistinct ground, and
      he beheld some vague shapes, unfamiliar to him. Formless heaps, they
      seemed; but, without much curiosity, he supposed that sewer connections or
      water pipes might be out of order, making necessary some excavations. He
      hoped the work would not take long; he hated to see that sweep of lawn
      made unsightly by trenches and lines of dirt, even temporarily. Not
      greatly disturbed, however, he pulled down the shade, yawned, and began
      to, undress, leaving further investigation for the morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      But in the morning he had forgotten all about it, and raised his shade, to
      let in the light, without even glancing toward the ground. Not until he
      had finished dressing did he look forth from his window, and then his
      glance was casual. The next instant his attitude became electric, and he
      gave utterance to a bellow of dismay. He ran from his room, plunged down
      the stairs, out of the front door, and, upon a nearer view of the
      destroyed lawn, began to release profanity upon the breezeless summer air,
      which remained unaffected. Between his mother&rsquo;s house and his
      grandfather&rsquo;s, excavations for the cellars of five new houses were in
      process, each within a few feet of its neighbour. Foundations of brick
      were being laid; everywhere were piles of brick and stacked lumber, and
      sand heaps and mortar&rsquo; beds.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was Sunday, and so the workmen implicated in these defacings were
      denied what unquestionably; they would have considered a treat; but as the
      fanatic orator continued the monologue, a gentleman in flannels emerged
      upward from one of the excavations, and regarded him contemplatively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Obtaining any relief, nephew?&rdquo; he inquired with some interest. &ldquo;You must
      have learned quite a number of those expressions in childhood&mdash;it&rsquo;s
      so long since I&rsquo;d heard them I fancied they were obsolete.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who wouldn&rsquo;t swear?&rdquo; George demanded hotly. &ldquo;In the name of God, what
      does grandfather mean, doing such things?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My private opinion is,&rdquo; said Amberson gravely, &ldquo;he desires to increase
      his income by building these houses to rent.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, in the name of God, can&rsquo;t he increase his income any other way but
      this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the name of God, it would appear he couldn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s beastly! It&rsquo;s a damn degradation! It&rsquo;s a crime!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know about its being a crime,&rdquo; said his uncle, stepping over some
      planks to join him. &ldquo;It might be a mistake, though. Your mother said not
      to tell you until we got home, so as not to spoil commencement for you.
      She rather feared you&rsquo;d be upset.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Upset! Oh, my Lord, I should think I would be upset! He&rsquo;s in his second
      childhood. What did you let him do it for, in the name of&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Make it in the name of heaven this time, George; it&rsquo;s Sunday. Well, I
      thought, myself, it was a mistake.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I should say so!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Amberson. &ldquo;I wanted him to put up an apartment building
      instead of these houses.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An apartment building! Here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; that was my idea.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George struck his hands together despairingly. &ldquo;An apartment house! Oh, my
      Lord!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry! Your grandfather wouldn&rsquo;t listen to me, but he&rsquo;ll wish he
      had, some day. He says that people aren&rsquo;t going to live in miserable
      little flats when they can get a whole house with some grass in front and
      plenty of backyard behind. He sticks it out that apartment houses will
      never do in a town of this type, and when I pointed out to him that a
      dozen or so of &lsquo;em already are doing, he claimed it was just the novelty,
      and that they&rsquo;d all be empty as soon as people got used to &lsquo;em. So he&rsquo;s
      putting up these houses.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is he getting miserly in his old age?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hardly! Look what he gave Sydney and Amelia!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t mean he&rsquo;s a miser, of course,&rdquo; said George. &ldquo;Heaven knows he&rsquo;s
      liberal enough with mother and me; but why on earth didn&rsquo;t he sell
      something or other rather than do a thing like this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As a matter of fact,&rdquo; Amberson returned coolly, &ldquo;I believe he has sold
      something or other, from time to time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, in heaven&rsquo;s name,&rdquo; George cried, &ldquo;what did he do it for?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To get money,&rdquo; his uncle mildly replied. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s my deduction.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose you&rsquo;re joking&mdash;or trying to!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s the best way to look at it,&rdquo; Amberson said amiably. &ldquo;Take the
      whole thing as a joke&mdash;and in the meantime, if you haven&rsquo;t had your
      breakfast&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then if I were you I&rsquo;d go in and gets some. And&rdquo;&mdash;he paused,
      becoming serious&mdash;&ldquo;and if I were you I wouldn&rsquo;t say anything to your
      grandfather about this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think I could trust myself to speak to him about it,&rdquo; said
      George. &ldquo;I want to treat him respectfully, because he is my grandfather,
      but I don&rsquo;t believe I could if I talked to him about such a thing as
      this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And with a gesture of despair, plainly signifying that all too soon after
      leaving bright college years behind him he had entered into the full
      tragedy of life, George turned bitterly upon his heel and went into the
      house for his breakfast.
    </p>
    <p>
      His uncle, with his head whimsically upon one side, gazed after him not
      altogether unsympathetically, then descended again into the excavation
      whence he had lately emerged. Being a philosopher he was not surprised,
      that afternoon, in the course of a drive he took in the old carriage with
      the Major, when, George was encountered upon the highway, flashing along
      in his runabout with Lucy beside him and Pendennis doing better than three
      minutes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He seems to have recovered,&rdquo; Amberson remarked: &ldquo;Looks in the highest
      good spirits.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your grandson,&rdquo; Amberson explained. &ldquo;He was inclined to melancholy this
      morning, but seemed jolly enough just now when they passed us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What was he melancholy about? Not getting remorseful about all the money
      he&rsquo;s spent at college, was he?&rdquo; The Major chuckled feebly, but with
      sufficient grimness. &ldquo;I wonder what he thinks I&rsquo;m made of,&rdquo; he concluded
      querulously.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Gold,&rdquo; his son suggested, adding gently, &ldquo;And he&rsquo;s right about part of
      you, father.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What part?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your heart.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Major laughed ruefully. &ldquo;I suppose that may account for how heavy it
      feels, sometimes, nowadays. This town seems to be rolling right over that
      old heart you mentioned, George&mdash;rolling over it and burying it
      under! When I think of those devilish workmen digging up my lawn, yelling
      around my house&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never mind, father. Don&rsquo;t think of it. When things are a nuisance it&rsquo;s a
      good idea not to keep remembering &lsquo;em.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I try not to,&rdquo; the old gentleman murmured. &ldquo;I try to keep remembering
      that I won&rsquo;t be remembering anything very long.&rdquo; And, somehow convinced
      that this thought was a mirthful one, he laughed loudly, and slapped his
      knee. &ldquo;Not so very long now, my boy!&rdquo; he chuckled, continuing to echo his
      own amusement. &ldquo;Not so very long. Not so very long!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0017" id="link2HCH0017">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
