<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 28</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVIII</h2>
    <p>
      At that hour the heroine of the susceptible clerk&rsquo;s romance was engaged in
      brightening the rosy little coal fire under the white mantelpiece in her
      pretty white-and-blue boudoir. Four photographs all framed in decorous
      plain silver went to the anthracite&rsquo;s fierce destruction&mdash;frames and
      all&mdash;and three packets of letters and notes in a charming Florentine
      treasure-box of painted wood; nor was the box, any more than the silver
      frames, spared this rousing finish. Thrown heartily upon live coal, the
      fine wood sparkled forth in stars, then burst into an alarming blaze which
      scorched the white mantelpiece, but Lucy stood and looked on without
      moving.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was not Eugene who told her what had happened at Isabel&rsquo;s door. When
      she got home, she found Fanny Minafer waiting for her&mdash;a secret
      excursion of Fanny&rsquo;s for the purpose, presumably, of &ldquo;letting out&rdquo; again;
      because that was what she did. She told Lucy everything (except her own
      lamentable part in the production of the recent miseries) and concluded
      with a tribute to George: &ldquo;The worst of it is, he thinks he&rsquo;s been such a
      hero, and Isabel does, too, and that makes him more than twice as awful.
      It&rsquo;s been the same all his life: everything he did was noble and perfect.
      He had a domineering nature to begin with, and she let it go on, and
      fostered it till it absolutely ruled her. I never saw a plainer case of a
      person&rsquo;s fault making them pay for having it! She goes about, overseeing
      the packing and praising George and pretending to be perfectly cheerful
      about what he&rsquo;s making her do and about the dreadful things he&rsquo;s done. She
      pretends he did such a fine thing&mdash;so manly and protective&mdash;going
      to Mrs. Johnson. And so heroic&mdash;doing what his &lsquo;principles&rsquo; made him&mdash;even
      though he knew what it would cost him with you! And all the while it&rsquo;s
      almost killing her&mdash;what he said to your father! She&rsquo;s always been
      lofty enough, so to speak, and had the greatest idea of the Ambersons
      being superior to the rest of the world, and all that, but rudeness, or
      anything like a &lsquo;scene,&rsquo; or any bad manners&mdash;they always just made
      her sick! But she could never see what George&rsquo;s manners were&mdash;oh,
      it&rsquo;s been a terrible adulation!... It&rsquo;s going to be a task for me, living
      in that big house, all alone: you must come and see me&mdash;I mean after
      they&rsquo;ve gone, of course. I&rsquo;ll go crazy if I don&rsquo;t see something of people.
      I&rsquo;m sure you&rsquo;ll come as often as you can. I know you too well to think
      you&rsquo;ll be sensitive about coming there, or being reminded of George. Thank
      heaven you&rsquo;re too well-balanced,&rdquo; Miss Fanny concluded, with a profound
      fervour, &ldquo;you&rsquo;re too well-balanced to let anything affect you deeply about
      that&mdash;that monkey!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The four photographs and the painted Florentine box went to their
      cremation within the same hour that Miss Fanny spoke; and a little later
      Lucy called her father in, as he passed her door, and pointed to the
      blackened area on the underside of the mantelpiece, and to the burnt heap
      upon the coal, where some metallic shapes still retained outline. She
      flung her arms about his neck in passionate sympathy, telling him that she
      knew what had happened to him; and presently he began to comfort her and
      managed an embarrassed laugh.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, well&mdash;&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I was too old for such foolishness to be
      getting into my head, anyhow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no!&rdquo; she sobbed. &ldquo;And if you knew how I despise myself for&mdash;for
      ever having thought one instant about&mdash;oh, Miss Fanny called him the
      right name: that monkey! He is!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There, I think I agree with you,&rdquo; Eugene said grimly, and in his eyes
      there was a steady light of anger that was to last. &ldquo;Yes, I think I agree
      with you about that!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s only one thing to do with such a person,&rdquo; she said vehemently.
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s to put him out of our thoughts forever&mdash;forever!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And yet, the next day, at six o&rsquo;clock, which was the hour, Fanny had told
      her, when George and his mother were to leave upon their long journey,
      Lucy touched that scorched place on her mantel with her hand just as the
      little clock above it struck. Then, after this odd, unconscious gesture,
      she went to a window and stood between the curtains, looking out into the
      cold November dusk; and in spite of every reasoning and reasonable power
      within her, a pain of loneliness struck through her heart. The dim street
      below her window, the dark houses across the way, the vague air itself&mdash;all
      looked empty, and cold and (most of all) uninteresting. Something more
      sombre than November dusk took the colour from them and gave them that air
      of desertion.
    </p>
    <p>
      The light of her fire, flickering up behind her showed suddenly a flying
      group of tiny snowflakes nearing the window-pane; and for an instant she
      felt the sensation of being dragged through a snows drift under a broken
      cutter, with a boy&rsquo;s arms about her&mdash;an arrogant, handsome,
      too-conquering boy, who nevertheless did his best to get hurt himself,
      keeping her from any possible harm.
    </p>
    <p>
      She shook the picture out of her eyes indignantly, then came and sat
      before her fire, and looked long and long at the blackened mantelpiece.
      She did not have the mantelpiece repainted&mdash;and, since she did not,
      might as well have kept his photographs. One forgets what made the scar
      upon his hand but not what made the scar upon his wall.
    </p>
    <p>
      She played no marche funebre upon her piano, even though Chopin&rsquo;s romantic
      lamentation was then at the top of nine-tenths of the music-racks in the
      country, American youth having recently discovered the distinguished
      congeniality between itself and this deathless bit of deathly gloom. She
      did not even play &ldquo;Robin Adair&rdquo;; she played &ldquo;Bedelia&rdquo; and all the new
      cake-walks, for she was her father&rsquo;s housekeeper, and rightly looked upon
      the office as being the same as that of his heart-keeper. Therefore it was
      her affair to keep both house and heart in what state of cheerfulness
      might be contrived. She made him &ldquo;go out&rdquo; more than ever; made him take
      her to all the gayeties of that winter, declining to go herself unless he
      took her, and, though Eugene danced no more, and quoted Shakespeare to
      prove all lightfoot caperings beneath the dignity of his age, she broke
      his resolution for him at the New Year&rsquo;s Eve &ldquo;Assembly&rdquo; and half coaxed,
      half dragged him forth upon the floor, and made him dance the New Year in
      with her.
    </p>
    <p>
      New faces appeared at the dances of the winter; new faces had been
      appearing everywhere, for that matter, and familiar ones were
      disappearing, merged in the increasing crowd, or gone forever and missed a
      little and not long; for the town was growing and changing as it never had
      grown and changed before.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was heaving up in the middle incredibly; it was spreading incredibly;
      and as it heaved and spread, it befouled itself and darkened its sky. Its
      boundary was mere shapelessness on the run; a raw, new house would appear
      on a country road; four or five others would presently be built at
      intervals between it and the outskirts of the town; the country road would
      turn into an asphalt street with a brick-faced drugstore and a frame
      grocery at a corner; then bungalows and six-room cottages would swiftly
      speckle the open green spaces&mdash;and a farm had become a suburb which
      would immediately shoot out other suburbs into the country, on one side,
      and, on the other, join itself solidly to the city. You drove between
      pleasant fields and woodland groves one spring day; and in the autumn,
      passing over the same ground, you were warned off the tracks by an
      interurban trolley-car&rsquo;s gonging, and beheld, beyond cement sidewalks just
      dry, new house-owners busy &ldquo;moving in.&rdquo; Gasoline and electricity were
      performing the miracles Eugene had predicted.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the great change was in the citizenry itself. What was left of the
      patriotic old-stock generation that had fought the Civil War, and
      subsequently controlled politics, had become venerable and was little
      heeded. The descendants of the pioneers and early settlers were merging
      into the new crowd, becoming part of it, little to be distinguished from
      it. What happened to Boston and to Broadway happened in degree to the
      Midland city; the old stock became less and less typical, and of the grown
      people who called the place home, less than a third had been born in it.
      There was a German quarter; there was a Jewish quarter; there was a negro
      quarter&mdash;square miles of it&mdash;called &ldquo;Bucktown&rdquo;; there were many
      Irish neighbourhoods; and there were large settlements of Italians, and of
      Hungarians, and of Rumanians, and of Serbians and other Balkan peoples.
      But not the emigrants, themselves, were the almost dominant type on the
      streets downtown. That type was the emigrant&rsquo;s prosperous offspring:
      descendant of the emigrations of the Seventies and Eighties and Nineties,
      those great folk-journeyings in search not so directly of freedom and
      democracy as of more money for the same labour. A new Midlander&mdash;in
      fact, a new American&mdash;was beginning dimly to emerge.
    </p>
    <p>
      A new spirit of citizenship had already sharply defined itself. It was
      idealistic, and its ideals were expressed in the new kind of young men in
      business downtown. They were optimists&mdash;optimists to the point of
      belligerence&mdash;their motto being &ldquo;Boost! Don&rsquo;t Knock!&rdquo; And they were
      hustlers, believing in hustling and in honesty because both paid. They
      loved their city and worked for it with a plutonic energy which was always
      ardently vocal. They were viciously governed, but they sometimes went so
      far to struggle for better government on account of the helpful effect of
      good government on the price of real estate and &ldquo;betterment&rdquo; generally;
      the politicians could not go too far with them, and knew it. The idealists
      planned and strove and shouted that their city should become a better,
      better, and better city&mdash;and what they meant, when they used the word
      &ldquo;better,&rdquo; was &ldquo;more prosperous,&rdquo; and the core of their idealism was this:
      &ldquo;The more prosperous my beloved city, the more prosperous beloved I!&rdquo; They
      had one supreme theory: that the perfect beauty and happiness of cities
      and of human life was to be brought about by more factories; they had a
      mania for factories; there was nothing they would not do to cajole a
      factory away from another city; and they were never more piteously
      embittered than when another city cajoled one away from them.
    </p>
    <p>
      What they meant by Prosperity was credit at the bank; but in exchange for
      this credit they got nothing that was not dirty, and, therefore, to a sane
      mind, valueless; since whatever was cleaned was dirty again before the
      cleaning was half done. For, as the town grew, it grew dirty with an
      incredible completeness. The idealists put up magnificent business
      buildings and boasted of them, but the buildings were begrimed before they
      were finished. They boasted of their libraries, of their monuments and
      statues; and poured soot on them. They boasted of their schools, but the
      schools were dirty, like the children within them. This was not the fault
      of the children or their mothers. It was the fault of the idealists, who
      said: &ldquo;The more dirt, the more prosperity.&rdquo; They drew patriotic,
      optimistic breaths of the flying powdered filth of the streets, and took
      the foul and heavy smoke with gusto into the profundities of their lungs.
      &ldquo;Boost! Don&rsquo;t knock!&rdquo; they said. And every year or so they boomed a great
      Clean-up Week, when everybody was supposed to get rid of the tin cans in
      his backyard.
    </p>
    <p>
      They were happiest when the tearing down and building up were most
      riotous, and when new factory districts were thundering into life. In
      truth, the city came to be like the body of a great dirty man, skinned, to
      show his busy works, yet wearing a few barbaric ornaments; and such a
      figure carved, coloured, and discoloured, and set up in the market-place,
      would have done well enough as the god of the new people. Such a god they
      had indeed made in their own image, as all peoples make the god they truly
      serve; though of course certain of the idealists went to church on Sunday,
      and there knelt to Another, considered to be impractical in business. But
      while the Growing went on, this god of their market-place was their true
      god, their familiar and spirit-control. They did not know that they were
      his helplessly obedient slaves, nor could they ever hope to realize their
      serfdom (as the first step toward becoming free men) until they should
      make the strange and hard discovery that matter should serve man&rsquo;s spirit.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Prosperity&rdquo; meant good credit at the bank, black lungs, and housewives&rsquo;
      Purgatory. The women fought the dirt all they could; but if they let the
      air into their houses they let in the dirt. It shortened their lives, and
      kept them from the happiness of ever seeing anything white. And thus, as
      the city grew, the time came when Lucy, after a hard struggle, had to give
      up her blue-and-white curtains and her white walls. Indoors, she put
      everything into dull gray and brown, and outside had the little house
      painted the dark green nearest to black. Then she knew, of course, that
      everything was as dirty as ever, but was a little less distressed because
      it no longer looked so dirty as it was.
    </p>
    <p>
      These were bad times for Amberson Addition. This quarter, already old, lay
      within a mile of the centre of the town, but business moved in other
      directions; and the Addition&rsquo;s share of Prosperity was only the smoke and
      dirt, with the bank credit left out. The owners of the original big houses
      sold them, or rented them to boarding-house keepers, and the tenants of
      the multitude of small houses moved &ldquo;farther out&rdquo; (where the smoke was
      thinner) or into apartment houses, which were built by dozens now. Cheaper
      tenants took their places, and the rents were lower and lower, and the
      houses shabbier and shabbier&mdash;for all these shabby houses, burning
      soft coal, did their best to help in the destruction of their own value.
      They helped to make the quarter so dingy and the air so foul to breathe
      that no one would live there who had money enough to get &ldquo;farther out&rdquo;
       where there were glimpses of ungrayed sky and breaths of cleaner winds.
      And with the coming of the new speed, &ldquo;farther out&rdquo; was now as close to
      business as the Addition had been in the days of its prosperity. Distances
      had ceased to matter.
    </p>
    <p>
      The five new houses, built so closely where had been the fine lawn of the
      Amberson Mansion, did not look new. When they were a year old they looked
      as old as they would ever look; and two of them were vacant, having never
      been rented, for the Major&rsquo;s mistake about apartment houses had been a
      disastrous one. &ldquo;He guessed wrong,&rdquo; George Amberson said.. &ldquo;He guessed
      wrong at just the wrong time! Housekeeping in a house is harder than in an
      apartment; and where the smoke and dirt are as thick as they are in the
      Addition, women can&rsquo;t stand it. People were crazy for apartments&mdash;too
      bad he couldn&rsquo;t have seen it in time. Poor man! he digs away at his
      ledgers by his old gas drop-light lamp almost every night&mdash;he still
      refuses to let the Mansion be torn up for wiring, you know. But he had one
      painful satisfaction this spring: he got his taxes lowered!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson laughed ruefully, and Fanny Minafer asked how the Major could
      have managed such an economy. They were sitting upon the veranda at
      Isabel&rsquo;s one evening during the third summer of the absence of their
      nephew and his mother; and the conversation had turned toward Amberson
      finances.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I said it was a &lsquo;painful satisfaction,&rsquo; Fanny,&rdquo; he explained. &ldquo;The
      property has gone down in value, and they assessed it lower than they did
      fifteen years ago.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But farther out&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, yes, &lsquo;farther out!&rsquo; Prices are magnificent &lsquo;farther out,&rsquo; and farther
      in, too! We just happen to be the wrong spot, that&rsquo;s all. Not that I don&rsquo;t
      think something could be done if father would let me have a hand; but he
      won&rsquo;t. He can&rsquo;t, I suppose I ought to say. He&rsquo;s &lsquo;always done his own
      figuring,&rsquo; he says; and it&rsquo;s his lifelong habit to keep his affairs: and
      even his books, to himself, and just hand us out the money. Heaven knows
      he&rsquo;s done enough of that!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He sighed; and both were silent, looking out at the long flares of the
      constantly passing automobile headlights, shifting in vast geometric
      demonstrations against the darkness. Now and then a bicycle wound its
      nervous way among these portents, or, at long intervals, a surrey or buggy
      plodded forlornly by.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There seem to be so many ways of making money nowadays,&rdquo; Fanny said
      thoughtfully. &ldquo;Every day I hear of a new fortune some person has got hold
      of, one way or another&mdash;nearly always it&rsquo;s somebody you never heard
      of. It doesn&rsquo;t seem all to be in just making motor cars; I hear there&rsquo;s a
      great deal in manufacturing these things that motor cars use&mdash;new
      inventions particularly. I met dear old Frank Bronson the other day, and
      he told me&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, yes, even dear old Frank&rsquo;s got the fever,&rdquo; Amberson laughed. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s as
      wild as any of them. He told me about this invention he&rsquo;s gone into, too.
      &lsquo;Millions in it!&rsquo; Some new electric headlight better than anything yet&mdash;&lsquo;every
      car in America can&rsquo;t help but have &lsquo;em,&rsquo; and all that. He&rsquo;s putting half
      he&rsquo;s laid by into it, and the fact is, he almost talked me into getting
      father to &lsquo;finance me&rsquo; enough for me to go into it. Poor father! he&rsquo;s
      financed me before! I suppose he would again if I had the heart to ask
      him; and this seems to be a good thing, though probably old Frank is a
      little too sanguine. At any rate, I&rsquo;ve been thinking it over.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So have I,&rdquo; Fanny admitted. &ldquo;He seemed to be certain it would pay
      twenty-five per cent. the first year, and enormously more after that; and
      I&rsquo;m only getting four on my little principal. People are making such
      enormous fortunes out of everything to do with motor cars, it does seem as
      if&mdash;&rdquo; She paused. &ldquo;Well, I told him I&rsquo;d think it over seriously.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We may turn out to be partners and millionaires then,&rdquo; Amberson laughed.
      &ldquo;I thought I&rsquo;d ask Eugene&rsquo;s advice.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish you would,&rdquo; said Fanny. &ldquo;He probably knows exactly how much profit
      there would be in this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene&rsquo;s advice was to &ldquo;go slow&rdquo;: he thought electric lights for
      automobiles were &ldquo;coming&mdash;someday but probably not until certain
      difficulties could be overcome.&rdquo; Altogether, he was discouraging, but by
      this time his two friends &ldquo;had the fever&rdquo; as thoroughly as old Frank
      Bronson himself had it; for they had been with Bronson to see the light
      working beautifully in a machine shop. They were already enthusiastic, and
      after asking Eugene&rsquo;s opinion they argued with him, telling him how they
      had seen with their own eyes that the difficulties he mentioned had been
      overcome. &ldquo;Perfectly!&rdquo; Fanny cried. &ldquo;And if it worked in the shop it&rsquo;s
      bound to work any place else, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He would not agree that it was &ldquo;bound to&rdquo;&mdash;yet, being pressed, was
      driven to admit that &ldquo;it might,&rdquo; and, retiring from what was developing
      into an oratorical contest, repeated a warning about not &ldquo;putting too much
      into it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George Amberson also laid stress on this caution later, though the Major
      had &ldquo;financed him&rdquo; again, and he was &ldquo;going in.&rdquo; &ldquo;You must be careful to
      leave yourself a &lsquo;margin of safety,&rsquo; Fanny,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m confident that
      is a pretty conservative investment of its kind, and all the chances are
      with us, but you must be careful to leave yourself enough to fall back on,
      in case anything should go wrong.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fanny deceived him. In the impossible event of &ldquo;anything going wrong&rdquo; she
      would have enough left to &ldquo;live on,&rdquo; she declared, and laughed excitedly,
      for she was having the best time that had come to her since Wilbur&rsquo;s
      death. Like so many women for whom money has always been provided without
      their understanding how, she was prepared to be a thorough and
      irresponsible plunger.
    </p>
    <p>
      Amberson, in his wearier way, shared her excitement, and in the winter,
      when the exploiting company had been formed, and he brought Fanny, her
      importantly engraved shares of stock, he reverted to his prediction of
      possibilities, made when they first spoke of the new light.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We seem to be partners, all right,&rdquo; he laughed. &ldquo;Now let&rsquo;s go ahead and
      be millionaires before Isabel and young George come home.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When they come home!&rdquo; she echoed sorrowfully&mdash;and it was a phrase
      which found an evasive echo in Isabel&rsquo;s letters. In these letters Isabel
      was always planning pleasant things that she and Fanny and the Major and
      George and &ldquo;brother George&rdquo; would do&mdash;when she and her son came home.
      &ldquo;They&rsquo;ll find things pretty changed, I&rsquo;m afraid,&rdquo; Fanny said. &ldquo;If they
      ever do come home!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson went over, the next summer, and joined his sister and nephew in
      Paris, where they were living. &ldquo;Isabel does want to come home,&rdquo; he told
      Fanny gravely, on the day of his return, in October. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s wanted to for
      a long while&mdash;and she ought to come while she can stand the journey&mdash;&rdquo;
       And he amplified this statement, leaving Fanny looking startled and solemn
      when Lucy came by to drive him out to dinner at the new house Eugene had
      just completed.
    </p>
    <p>
      This was no white-and-blue cottage, but a great Georgian picture in brick,
      five miles north of Amberson Addition, with four acres of its own hedged
      land between it and its next neighbour; and Amberson laughed wistfully as
      they turned in between the stone and brick gate pillars, and rolled up the
      crushed stone driveway. &ldquo;I wonder, Lucy, if history&rsquo;s going on forever
      repeating itself,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I wonder if this town&rsquo;s going on building up
      things and rolling over them, as poor father once said it was rolling over
      his poor old heart. It looks like it: here&rsquo;s the Amberson Mansion again,
      only it&rsquo;s Georgian instead of nondescript Romanesque; but it&rsquo;s just the
      same Amberson Mansion that my father built long before you were born. The
      only difference is that it&rsquo;s your father who&rsquo;s built this one now. It&rsquo;s
      all the same, in the long run.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lucy did not quite understand, but she laughed as a friend should, and,
      taking his arm, showed him through vast rooms where ivory-panelled walls
      and trim window hangings were reflected dimly in dark, rugless floors, and
      the sparse furniture showed that Lucy had been &ldquo;collecting&rdquo; with a long
      purse. &ldquo;By Jove!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You have been going it! Fanny tells me you had
      a great &lsquo;house-warming&rsquo; dance, and you keep right on being the belle of
      the ball, not any softer-hearted than you used to be. Fred Kinney&rsquo;s father
      says you&rsquo;ve refused Fred so often that he got engaged to Janie Sharon just
      to prove that someone would have him in spite of his hair. Well, the
      material world do move, and you&rsquo;ve got the new kind of house it moves into
      nowadays&mdash;if it has the new price! And even the grand old expanses of
      plate glass we used to be so proud of at the other Amberson Mansion&mdash;they&rsquo;ve
      gone, too, with the crowded heavy gold and red stuff. Curious! We&rsquo;ve still
      got the plate glass windows, though all we can see out of &lsquo;em is the smoke
      and the old Johnson house, which is a counter-jumper&rsquo;s boardinghouse now,
      while you&rsquo;ve got a view, and you cut it all up into little panes. Well,
      you&rsquo;re pretty refreshingly out of the smoke up here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, for a while,&rdquo; Lucy laughed. &ldquo;Until it comes and we have to move out
      farther.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, you&rsquo;ll stay here,&rdquo; he assured her. &ldquo;It will be somebody else who&rsquo;ll
      move out farther.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He continued to talk of the house after Eugene arrived, and gave them no
      account of his journey until they had retired from the dinner table to
      Eugene&rsquo;s library, a gray and shadowy room, where their coffee was brought.
      Then, equipped with a cigar, which seemed to occupy his attention,
      Amberson spoke in a casual tone of his sister and her son.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I found Isabel as well as usual,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;only I&rsquo;m afraid &lsquo;as usual&rsquo;
      isn&rsquo;t particularly well. Sydney and Amelia had been up to Paris in the
      spring, but she hadn&rsquo;t seen them. Somebody told her they were there, it
      seems. They&rsquo;d left Florence and were living in Rome; Amelia&rsquo;s become a
      Catholic and is said to give great sums to charity and to go about with
      the gentry in consequence, but Sydney&rsquo;s ailing and lives in a wheel-chair
      most of the time. It struck me Isabel ought to be doing the same thing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused, bestowing minute care upon the removal of the little band from
      his cigar; and as he seemed to have concluded his narrative, Eugene spoke
      out of the shadow beyond a heavily shaded lamp: &ldquo;What do you mean by
      that?&rdquo; he asked quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, she&rsquo;s cheerful enough,&rdquo; said Amberson, still not looking at either
      his young hostess or her father. &ldquo;At least,&rdquo; he added, &ldquo;she manages to
      seem so. I&rsquo;m afraid she hasn&rsquo;t been really well for several years. She
      isn&rsquo;t stout you know&mdash;she hasn&rsquo;t changed in looks much&mdash;and she
      seems rather alarmingly short of breath for a slender person. Father&rsquo;s
      been that way for years, of course; but never nearly so much as Isabel is
      now. Of course she makes nothing of it, but it seemed rather serious to me
      when I noticed she had to stop and rest twice to get up the one short
      flight of stairs in their two-floor apartment. I told her I thought she
      ought to make George let her come home.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let her?&rdquo; Eugene repeated, in a low voice. &ldquo;Does she want to?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She doesn&rsquo;t urge it. George seems to like the life there-in his grand,
      gloomy, and peculiar way; and of course she&rsquo;ll never change about being
      proud of him and all that&mdash;he&rsquo;s quite a swell. But in spite of
      anything she said, rather than because, I know she does indeed want to
      come. She&rsquo;d like to be with father, of course; and I think she&rsquo;s&mdash;well,
      she intimated one day that she feared it might even happen that she
      wouldn&rsquo;t get to see him again. At the time I thought she referred to his
      age and feebleness, but on the boat, coming home, I remembered the little
      look of wistfulness, yet of resignation, with which she said it, and it
      struck me all at once that I&rsquo;d been mistaken: I saw she was really
      thinking of her own state of health.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see,&rdquo; Eugene said, his voice even lower than it had been before. &ldquo;And
      you say he won&rsquo;t &lsquo;let&rsquo; her come home?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson laughed, but still continued to be interested in his cigar. &ldquo;Oh,
      I don&rsquo;t think he uses force! He&rsquo;s very gentle with her. I doubt if the
      subject is mentioned between them, and yet&mdash;and yet, knowing my
      interesting nephew as you do, wouldn&rsquo;t you think that was about the way to
      put it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Knowing him as I do&mdash;yes,&rdquo; said Eugene slowly. &ldquo;Yes, I should think that
      was about the way to put it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A murmur out of the shadows beyond him&mdash;a faint sound, musical and
      feminine, yet expressive of a notable intensity&mdash;seemed to indicate
      that Lucy was of the same opinion.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0029" id="link2HCH0029">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
