<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 24</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
    <p>
      Breakfast was brought to him in his room, as usual; but he did not make
      his normal healthy raid upon the dainty tray: the food remained untouched,
      and he sustained himself upon coffee&mdash;four cups of it, which left
      nothing of value inside the glistening little percolator. During this
      process he heard his mother being summoned to the telephone in the hall,
      not far from his door, and then her voice responding: &ldquo;Yes? Oh, it&rsquo;s you!
      Indeed I should!... Of course.. .. Then I&rsquo;ll expect you about three...
      Yes. Good-bye till then.&rdquo; A few minutes later he heard her speaking to
      someone beneath his window and, looking out, saw her directing the removal
      of plants from a small garden bed to the Major&rsquo;s conservatory for the
      winter. There was an air of briskness about her; as she turned away to go
      into the house, she laughed gaily with the Major&rsquo;s gardener over something
      he said, and this unconcerned cheerfulness of her was terrible to her son.
    </p>
    <p>
      He went to his desk, and, searching the jumbled contents of a drawer,
      brought forth a large, unframed photograph of his father, upon which he
      gazed long and piteously, till at last hot tears stood in his eyes. It was
      strange how the inconsequent face of Wilbur seemed to increase in high
      significance during this belated interview between father and son; and how
      it seemed to take on a reproachful nobility&mdash;and yet, under the
      circumstances, nothing could have been more natural than that George,
      having paid but the slightest attention to his father in life, should
      begin to deify him, now that he was dead. &ldquo;Poor, poor father!&rdquo; the son
      whispered brokenly. &ldquo;Poor man, I&rsquo;m glad you didn&rsquo;t know!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He wrapped the picture in a sheet of newspaper, put it under his arm, and,
      leaving the house hurriedly and stealthily, went downtown to the shop of a
      silversmith, where he spent sixty dollars on a resplendently festooned
      silver frame for the picture. Having lunched upon more coffee, he returned
      to the house at two o&rsquo;clock, carrying the framed photograph with him, and
      placed it upon the centre-table in the library, the room most used by
      Isabel and Fanny and himself. Then he went to a front window of the long
      &ldquo;reception room,&rdquo; and sat looking out through the lace curtains.
    </p>
    <p>
      The house was quiet, though once or twice he heard his mother and Fanny
      moving about upstairs, and a ripple of song in the voice of Isabel&mdash;a
      fragment from the romantic ballad of Lord Bateman.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lord Bateman was a noble lord, A noble lord of high degree; And he sailed
      West and he sailed East, Far countries for to see....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The words became indistinct; the air was hummed absently; the humming
      shifted to a whistle, then drifted out of hearing, and the place was still
      again.
    </p>
    <p>
      George looked often at his watch, but his vigil did not last an hour. At
      ten minutes of three, peering through the curtain, he saw an automobile
      stop in front of the house and Eugene Morgan jump lightly down from it.
      The car was of a new pattern, low and long, with an ample seat in the
      tonneau, facing forward; and a professional driver sat at the wheel, a
      strange figure in leather, goggled out of all personality and seemingly
      part of the mechanism.
    </p>
    <p>
      Eugene himself, as he came up the cement path to the house, was a figure
      of the new era which was in time to be so disastrous to stiff hats and
      skirted coats; and his appearance afforded a debonair contrast to that of
      the queer-looking duck capering: at the Amberson Ball in an old dress
      coat, and chugging up National Avenue through the snow in his nightmare of
      a sewing-machine. Eugene, this afternoon, was richly in the new outdoor
      mode: motoring coat was soft gray fur; his cap and gloves were of gray
      suede; and though Lucy&rsquo;s hand may have shown itself in the selection of
      these garnitures, he wore them easily, even with becoming hint of
      jauntiness. Some change might be his face, too, for a successful man is
      seldom to be mistaken, especially if his temper be genial. Eugene had
      begun to look like a millionaire.
    </p>
    <p>
      But above everything else, what was most evident about him, as he came up
      the path, was confidence in the happiness promised by his errand; the
      anticipation in his eyes could have been read by a stranger. His look at
      the door of Isabel&rsquo;s house was the look of a man who is quite certain that
      the next moment will reveal something ineffably charming, inexpressibly
      dear.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the bell rang, George waited at the entrance of the &ldquo;reception room&rdquo;
       until a housemaid came through the hall on her way to answer the summons.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You needn&rsquo;t mind, Mary,&rdquo; he told her. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll see who it is and what they
      want. Probably it&rsquo;s only a pedlar.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, sir, Mister George,&rdquo; said Mary; and returned to the rear of
      the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      George went slowly to the front door, and halted, regarding the misty
      silhouette of the caller upon the ornamental frosted glass. After a minute
      of waiting, this silhouette changed outline so that an arm could be
      distinguished&mdash;an arm outstretched toward the bell, as if the
      gentleman outside doubted whether or not it had sounded, and were minded
      to try again. But before the gesture was completed George abruptly threw
      open the door, and stepped squarely upon the middle of the threshold.
    </p>
    <p>
      A slight change shadowed the face of Eugene; his look of happy
      anticipation gave way to something formal and polite. &ldquo;How do you do,
      George,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Mrs. Minafer expects to go driving with me, I believe&mdash;if
      you&rsquo;ll be so kind as to send her word that I&rsquo;m here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George made not the slightest movement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Eugene was incredulous, even when his second glance revealed how hot of
      eye was the haggard young man before him. &ldquo;I beg your pardon. I said&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I heard you,&rdquo; said George. &ldquo;You said you had an engagement with my
      mother, and I told you, No!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene gave him a steady look, and then he quietly: &ldquo;What is the&mdash;the
      difficulty?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George kept his own voice quiet enough, but that, did not mitigate the
      vibrant fury of it. &ldquo;My&mdash;mother will have no interest in knowing that
      you came here to-day,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Or any other day!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene continued to look at him with a scrutiny in which began to gleam a
      profound anger, none less powerful because it was so quiet. &ldquo;I am afraid I
      do not understand you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I doubt if I could make it much plainer,&rdquo; George said, raising his voice
      slightly, &ldquo;but I&rsquo;ll try. You&rsquo;re not wanted in this house, Mr. Morgan, now
      or at any other time. Perhaps you&rsquo;ll understand&mdash;this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And with the last word he closed the door in Eugene&rsquo;s face.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then, not moving away, he stood just inside door, and noted that the misty
      silhouette remained upon the frosted glass for several moments, as if the
      forbidden gentleman debated in his mind what course to pursue. &ldquo;Let him
      ring again!&rdquo; George thought grimly. &ldquo;Or try the side door&mdash;or the
      kitchen!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Eugene made no further attempt; the silhouette disappeared; footsteps
      could be heard withdrawing across the floor of the veranda; and George,
      returning to the window in the &ldquo;reception room,&rdquo; was rewarded by the sight
      of an automobile manufacturer in baffled retreat, with all his wooing furs
      and fineries mocking him. Eugene got into his car slowly, not looking back
      at the house which had just taught him such a lesson; and it was easily
      visible&mdash;even from a window seventy feet distant&mdash;that he was
      not the same light suitor who had jumped so gallantly from the car only a
      few minutes earlier. Observing the heaviness of his movements as he
      climbed into the tonneau, George indulged in a sickish throat rumble which
      bore a distant cousinship to mirth.
    </p>
    <p>
      The car was quicker than its owner; it shot away as soon as he had sunk
      into his seat; and George, having watched its impetuous disappearance from
      his field of vision, ceased to haunt the window. He went to the library,
      and, seating himself beside the table whereon he had placed the photograph
      of his father, picked up a book, and pretended to be engaged in reading
      it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Presently Isabel&rsquo;s buoyant step was heard descending the stairs, and her
      low, sweet whistling, renewing the air of &ldquo;Lord Bateman.&rdquo; She came into
      the library, still whistling thoughtfully, a fur coat over her arm, ready
      to put on, and two veils round her small black hat, her right hand engaged
      in buttoning the glove upon her left; and, as the large room contained too
      many pieces of heavy furniture, and the inside shutters excluded most of
      the light of day, she did not at once perceive George&rsquo;s presence. Instead,
      she went to the bay window at the end of the room, which afforded a view
      of the street, and glanced out expectantly; then bent her attention upon
      her glove; after that, looked out toward the street again, ceased to
      whistle, and turned toward the interior of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, Georgie!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She came, leaned over from behind him, and there was a faint, exquisite
      odour as from distant apple blossoms as she kissed his cheek. &ldquo;Dear, I
      waited lunch almost an hour for you, but you didn&rsquo;t come! Did you lunch
      out somewhere?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; He did not look up from the book.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you have plenty to eat?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you sure? Wouldn&rsquo;t you like to have Maggie get you something now in
      the dining room? Or they could bring it to you here, if you think it would
      be cozier. Shan&rsquo;t I&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A tinkling bell was audible, and she moved to the doorway into the hall.
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going out driving, dear. I&mdash;&rdquo; She interrupted herself to address
      the housemaid, who was passing through the hall: &ldquo;I think it&rsquo;s Mr. Morgan,
      Mary. Tell him I&rsquo;ll be there at once.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mary returned. &ldquo;Twas a pedlar, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Another one?&rdquo; Isabel said, surprised. &ldquo;I thought you said it was a pedlar
      when the bell rang a little while ago.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mister George said it was, ma&rsquo;am; he went to the door,&rdquo; Mary informed
      her, disappearing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There seem to be a great many of them,&rdquo; Isabel mused. &ldquo;What did yours
      want to sell, George?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He didn&rsquo;t say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You must have cut him off short!&rdquo; she laughed; and then, still standing
      in the doorway, she noticed the big silver frame upon the table beside
      him. &ldquo;Gracious, Georgie!&rdquo; she exclaimed. &ldquo;You have been investing!&rdquo; and as
      she came across the room for a closer view, &ldquo;Is it&mdash;is it Lucy?&rdquo; she
      asked half timidly, half archly. But the next instant she saw whose
      likeness was thus set forth in elegiac splendour&mdash;and she was silent,
      except for a long, just-audible &ldquo;Oh!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He neither looked up nor moved.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That was nice of you, Georgie,&rdquo; she said, in a low voice presently. &ldquo;I
      ought to have had it framed, myself, when I gave it to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He said nothing, and, standing beside him, she put her hand gently upon
      his shoulder, then as gently withdrew it, and went out of the room. But
      she did not go upstairs; he heard the faint rustle of her dress in the
      hall, and then the sound of her footsteps in the &ldquo;reception room.&rdquo; After a
      time, silence succeeded even these slight tokens of her presence;
      whereupon George rose and went warily into the hall, taking care to make
      no noise, and he obtained an oblique view of her through the open double
      doors of the &ldquo;reception room.&rdquo; She was sitting in the chair which he had
      occupied so long; and she was looking out of the window expectantly&mdash;a
      little troubled.
    </p>
    <p>
      He went back to the library, waited an interminable half hour, then
      returned noiselessly to the same position in the hall, where he could see
      her. She was still sitting patiently by the window.
    </p>
    <p>
      Waiting for that man, was she? Well, it might be quite a long wait! And
      the grim George silently ascended the stairs to his own room, and began to
      pace his suffering floor.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0025" id="link2HCH0025">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
