<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 19</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIX</h2>
    <p>
      George went driving the next afternoon alone, and, encountering Lucy and
      her father on the road, in one of Morgan&rsquo;s cars, lifted his hat, but
      nowise relaxed his formal countenance as they passed. Eugene waved a
      cordial hand quickly returned to the steering-wheel; but Lucy only nodded
      gravely and smiled no more than George did. Nor did she accompany Eugene
      to the Major&rsquo;s for dinner, the following Sunday evening, though both were
      bidden to attend that feast, which was already reduced in numbers and
      gayety by the absence of George Amberson. Eugene explained to his host
      that Lucy had gone away to visit a school-friend.
    </p>
    <p>
      The information, delivered in the library, just before old Sam&rsquo;s
      appearance to announce dinner, set Miss Minafer in quite a flutter. &ldquo;Why,
      George!&rdquo; she said, turning to her nephew. &ldquo;How does it happen you didn&rsquo;t
      tell us?&rdquo; And with both hands opening, as if to express her innocence of
      some conspiracy, she exclaimed to the others, &ldquo;He&rsquo;s never said one word to
      us about Lucy&rsquo;s planning to go away!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Probably afraid to,&rdquo; the Major suggested. &ldquo;Didn&rsquo;t know but he might break
      down and cry if he tried to speak of it!&rdquo; He clapped his grandson on the
      shoulder, inquiring jocularly, &ldquo;That it, Georgie?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie made no reply, but he was red enough to justify the Major&rsquo;s
      developing a chuckle into laughter; though Miss Fanny, observing her
      nephew keenly, got an impression that this fiery blush was in truth more
      fiery than tender. She caught a glint in his eye less like confusion than
      resentment, and saw a dilation of his nostrils which might have indicated
      not so much a sweet agitation as an inaudible snort. Fanny had never been
      lacking in curiosity, and, since her brother&rsquo;s death, this quality was
      more than ever alert. The fact that George had spent all the evenings of
      the past week at home had not been lost upon her, nor had she failed to
      ascertain, by diplomatic inquiries, that since the day of the visit to
      Eugene&rsquo;s shops George had gone driving alone.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the dinner-table she continued to observe him, sidelong; and toward the
      conclusion of the meal she was not startled by an episode which brought
      discomfort to the others. After the arrival of coffee the Major was
      rallying Eugene upon some rival automobile shops lately built in a suburb,
      and already promising to flourish.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose they&rsquo;ll either drive you out of the business,&rdquo; said the old
      gentleman, &ldquo;or else the two of you&rsquo;ll drive all the rest of us off the
      streets.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If we do, we&rsquo;ll even things up by making the streets five or ten times as
      long as they are now,&rdquo; Eugene returned.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How do you propose to do that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t the distance from the center of a town that counts,&rdquo; said
      Eugene; &ldquo;it&rsquo;s the time it takes to get there. This town&rsquo;s already
      spreading; bicycles and trolleys have been doing their share, but the
      automobile is going to carry city streets clear out to the county line.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Major was skeptical. &ldquo;Dream on, fair son!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s lucky for us
      that you&rsquo;re only dreaming; because if people go to moving that far, real
      estate values in the old residence part of town are going to be stretched
      pretty thin.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m afraid so,&rdquo; Eugene assented. &ldquo;Unless you keep things so bright and
      clean that the old section will stay more attractive than the new ones.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not very likely! How are things going to be kept &lsquo;bright and clean&rsquo; with
      soft coal, and our kind of city government?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They aren&rsquo;t,&rdquo; Eugene replied quickly. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no hope of it, and already
      the boarding-house is marching up National Avenue. There are two in the
      next block below here, and there are a dozen in the half-mile below that.
      My relatives, the Sharons, have sold their house and are building in the
      country&mdash;at least, they call it &lsquo;the country.&rsquo; It will be city in two
      or three years.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good gracious!&rdquo; the Major exclaimed, affecting &lsquo;dismay. &ldquo;So your little
      shops are going to ruin all your old friends, Eugene!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Unless my old friends take warning in time, or abolish smoke and get a
      new kind of city government. I should say the best chance is to take
      Warning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, well!&rdquo; the Major laughed. &ldquo;You have enough faith in miracles,
      Eugene&mdash;granting that trolleys and bicycles and automobiles are
      miracles. So you think they&rsquo;re to change the face of the land, do you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They&rsquo;re already doing it, Major; and it can&rsquo;t be stopped. Automobiles&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this point he was interrupted. George was the interrupter. He had said
      nothing since entering the dining room, but now he spoke in a loud and
      peremptory voice, using the tone of one in authority who checks idle
      prattle and settles a matter forever.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Automobiles are a useless nuisance,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      There fell a moment&rsquo;s silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel gazed incredulously at George, colour slowly heightening upon her
      cheeks and temples, while Fanny watched him with a quick eagerness, her
      eyes alert and bright. But Eugene seemed merely quizzical, as if not
      taking this brusquerie to himself. The Major was seriously disturbed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What did you say, George?&rdquo; he asked, though George had spoken but too
      distinctly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I said all automobiles were a nuisance,&rdquo; George answered, repeating not
      only the words but the tone in which he had uttered them. And he added,
      &ldquo;They&rsquo;ll never amount to anything but a nuisance. They had no business to
      be invented.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Major frowned. &ldquo;Of course you forget that Mr. Morgan makes them, and
      also did his share in inventing them. If you weren&rsquo;t so thoughtless he
      might think you rather offensive.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That would be too bad,&rdquo; said George coolly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think I could
      survive it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Again there was a silence, while the Major stared at his grandson, aghast.
      But Eugene began to laugh cheerfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not sure he&rsquo;s wrong about automobiles,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;With all their
      speed forward they may be a step backward in civilization&mdash;that is,
      in spiritual civilization. It may be that they will not add to the beauty
      of the world, nor to the life of men&rsquo;s souls. I am not sure. But
      automobiles have come, and they bring a greater change in our life than
      most of us suspect. They are here, and almost all outward things are going
      to be different because of what they bring. They are going to alter war,
      and they are going to alter peace. I think men&rsquo;s minds are going to be
      changed in subtle ways because of automobiles; just how, though, I could
      hardly guess. But you can&rsquo;t have the immense outward changes that they
      will cause without some inward ones, and it may be that George is right,
      and that the spiritual alteration will be bad for us. Perhaps, ten or
      twenty years from now, if we can see the inward change in men by that
      time, I shouldn&rsquo;t be able to defend the gasoline engine, but would have to
      agree with him that automobiles &lsquo;had no business to be invented.&rsquo;&rdquo; He
      laughed good-naturedly, and looking at his watch, apologized for having an
      engagement which made his departure necessary when he would so much prefer
      to linger. Then he shook hands with the Major, and bade Isabel, George,
      and Fanny a cheerful good-night&mdash;a collective farewell cordially
      addressed to all three of them together&mdash;and left them at the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel turned wondering, hurt eyes upon her son. &ldquo;George, dear!&rdquo; she said.
      &ldquo;What did you mean?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just what I said,&rdquo; he returned, lighting one of the Major&rsquo;s cigars, and
      his manner was imperturbable enough to warrant the definition (sometimes
      merited by imperturbability) of stubbornness.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel&rsquo;s hand, pale and slender, upon the tablecloth, touched one of the
      fine silver candlesticks aimlessly: the fingers were seen to tremble. &ldquo;Oh,
      he was hurt!&rdquo; she murmured.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t see why he should be,&rdquo; George said. &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t say anything about
      him. He didn&rsquo;t seem to me to be hurt&mdash;seemed perfectly cheerful. What
      made you think he was hurt?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know him!&rdquo; was all of her reply, half whispered.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Major stared hard at George from under his white eyebrows. &ldquo;You didn&rsquo;t
      mean &lsquo;him,&rsquo; you say, George? I suppose if we had a clergyman as a guest
      here you&rsquo;d expect him not to be offended, and to understand that your
      remarks were neither personal nor untactful, if you said the church was a
      nuisance and ought never to have been invented. By Jove, but you&rsquo;re a
      puzzle!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In what way, may I ask, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We seem to have a new kind of young people these days,&rdquo; the old gentleman
      returned, shaking his head. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a new style of courting a pretty girl,
      certainly, for a young fellow to go deliberately out of his way to try and
      make an enemy of her father by attacking his business! By Jove! That&rsquo;s a
      new way to win a woman!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George flushed angrily and seemed about to offer a retort, but held his
      breath for a moment; and then held his peace. It was Isabel who responded
      to the Major. &ldquo;Oh, no!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Eugene would never be anybody&rsquo;s enemy&mdash;he
      couldn&rsquo;t!&mdash;and last of all Georgie&rsquo;s. I&rsquo;m afraid he was hurt, but I
      don&rsquo;t fear his not having understood that George spoke without thinking of
      what he was saying&mdash;I mean, with-out realizing its bearing on
      Eugene.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Again George seemed upon the point of speech, and again controlled the
      impulse. He thrust his hands in his pockets, leaned back in his chair, and
      smoked, staring inflexibly at the ceiling.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, well,&rdquo; said his grandfather, rising. &ldquo;It wasn&rsquo;t a very successful
      little dinner!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Thereupon he offered his arm to his daughter, who took it fondly, and they
      left the room, Isabel assuring him that all his little dinners were
      pleasant, and that this one was no exception.
    </p>
    <p>
      George did not move, and Fanny, following the other two, came round the
      table, and paused close beside his chair; but George remained posed in his
      great imperturbability, cigar between teeth, eyes upon ceiling, and paid
      no attention to her. Fanny waited until the sound of Isabel&rsquo;s and the
      Major&rsquo;s voices became inaudible in the hall. Then she said quickly, and in
      a low voice so eager that it was unsteady:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;George, you&rsquo;ve struck just the treatment to adopt: you&rsquo;re doing the right
      thing!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She hurried out, scurrying after the others with a faint rustling of her
      black skirts, leaving George mystified but incurious. He did not
      understand why she should bestow her approbation upon him in the matter,
      and cared so little whether she did or not that he spared himself even the
      trouble of being puzzled about it.
    </p>
    <p>
      In truth, however, he was neither so comfortable nor so imperturbable as
      he appeared. He felt some gratification: he had done a little to put the
      man in his place&mdash;that man whose influence upon his daughter was
      precisely the same thing as a contemptuous criticism of George Amberson
      Minafer, and of George Amberson Minafer&rsquo;s &ldquo;ideals of life.&rdquo; Lucy&rsquo;s going
      away without a word was intended, he supposed, as a bit of punishment.
      Well, he wasn&rsquo;t the sort of man that people were allowed to punish: he
      could demonstrate that to them&mdash;since they started it!
    </p>
    <p>
      It appeared to him as almost a kind of insolence, this abrupt departure&mdash;not
      even telephoning! Probably she wondered how he would take it; she even
      might have supposed he would show some betraying chagrin when he heard of
      it.
    </p>
    <p>
      He had no idea that this was just what he had shown; and he was satisfied
      with his evening&rsquo;s performance. Nevertheless, he was not comfortable in
      his mind; though he could not have explained his inward perturbations, for
      he was convinced, without any confirmation from his Aunt Fanny, that he
      had done &ldquo;just the right thing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0020" id="link2HCH0020">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
