<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 35</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXV</h2>
    <p>
      Eugene&rsquo;s feeling about George had not been altered by his talk with Kinney
      in the club window, though he was somewhat disturbed. He was not disturbed
      by Kinney&rsquo;s hint that Fanny Minafer might be left on the hands of her
      friends through her nephew&rsquo;s present dealings with nitroglycerin, but he
      was surprised that Kinney had &ldquo;led up&rdquo; with intentional tact to the
      suggestion that a position might be made for George in the Morgan factory.
      Eugene did not care to have any suggestions about Georgie Minafer made to
      him. Kinney had represented Georgie as a new Georgie&mdash;at least in
      spots&mdash;a Georgie who was proving that decent stuff had been hid in
      him; in fact, a Georgie who was doing rather a handsome thing in taking a
      risky job for the sake of his aunt, poor old silly Fanny Minafer! Eugene
      didn&rsquo;t care what risks Georgie took, or how much decent stuff he had in
      him: nothing that Georgie would ever do in this world or the next could
      change Eugene Morgan&rsquo;s feeling toward him.
    </p>
    <p>
      If Eugene could possibly have brought himself to offer Georgie a position
      in the automobile business, he knew full well the proud devil wouldn&rsquo;t
      have taken it from him; though Georgie&rsquo;s proud reason would not have been
      the one attributed to him by Eugene. George would never reach the point
      where he could accept anything material from Eugene and preserve the
      self-respect he had begun to regain.
    </p>
    <p>
      But if Eugene had wished, he could easily have taken George out of the
      nitroglycerin branch of the chemical works. Always interested in apparent
      impossibilities of invention, Eugene had encouraged many experiments in
      such gropings as those for the discovery of substitutes for gasoline and
      rubber; and, though his mood had withheld the information from Kinney, he
      had recently bought from the elder Akers a substantial quantity of stock
      on the condition that the chemical company should establish an
      experimental laboratory. He intended to buy more; Akers was anxious to
      please him; and a word from Eugene would have placed George almost
      anywhere in the chemical works. George need never have known it, for
      Eugene&rsquo;s purchases of stock were always quiet ones: the transaction
      remained, so far, between him and Akers, and could be kept between them.
    </p>
    <p>
      The possibility just edged itself into Eugene&rsquo;s mind; that is, he let it
      become part of his perceptions long enough for it to prove to him that it
      was actually a possibility. Then he half started with disgust that he
      should be even idly considering such a thing over his last cigar for the
      night, in his library. &ldquo;No!&rdquo; And he threw the cigar into the empty
      fireplace and went to bed.
    </p>
    <p>
      His bitterness for himself might have worn away, but never his bitterness
      for Isabel. He took that thought to bed with him&mdash;and it was true
      that nothing George could do would ever change this bitterness of Eugene.
      Only George&rsquo;s mother could have changed it.
    </p>
    <p>
      And as Eugene fell asleep that night, thinking thus bitterly of Georgie,
      Georgie in the hospital was thinking of Eugene. He had come &ldquo;out of ether&rdquo;
       with no great nausea, and had fallen into a reverie, though now and then a
      white sailboat staggered foolishly into the small ward where he lay. After
      a time he discovered that this happened only when he tried to open his
      eyes and look about him; so he kept his eyes shut, and his thoughts were
      clearer.
    </p>
    <p>
      He thought of Eugene Morgan and of the Major; they seemed to be the same
      person for awhile, but he managed to disentangle them and even to
      understand why he had confused them. Long ago his grandfather had been the
      most striking figure of success in the town: &ldquo;As rich as Major Amberson!&rdquo;
       they used to say. Now it was Eugene. &ldquo;If I had Eugene Morgan&rsquo;s money,&rdquo; he
      would hear the workmen day-dreaming at the chemical works; or, &ldquo;If Eugene
      Morgan had hold of this place you&rsquo;d see things hum!&rdquo; And the boarders at
      the table d&rsquo;hôte spoke of &ldquo;the Morgan Place&rdquo; as an eighteenth-century
      Frenchman spoke of Versailles. Like his uncle, George had perceived that
      the &ldquo;Morgan Place&rdquo; was the new Amberson Mansion. His reverie went back to
      the palatial days of the Mansion, in his boyhood, when he would gallop his
      pony up the driveway and order the darkey stable-men about, while they
      whooped and obeyed, and his grandfather, observing from a window, would
      laugh and call out to him, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s right, Georgie. Make those lazy rascals
      jump!&rdquo; He remembered his gay young uncles, and how the town was eager
      concerning everything about them, and about himself. What a clean, pretty
      town it had been! And in his reverie be saw like a pageant before him the
      magnificence of the Ambersons&mdash;its passing, and the passing of the
      Ambersons themselves. They had been slowly engulfed without knowing how to
      prevent it, and almost without knowing what was happening to them. The
      family lot, in the shabby older quarter, out at the cemetery, held most of
      them now; and the name was swept altogether from the new city. But the new
      great people who had taken their places&mdash;the Morgans and Akerses and
      Sheridans&mdash;they would go, too. George saw that. They would pass, as
      the Ambersons had passed, and though some of them might do better than the
      Major and leave the letters that spelled a name on a hospital or a street,
      it would be only a word and it would not stay forever. Nothing stays or
      holds or keeps where there is growth, he somehow perceived vaguely but
      truly. Great Caesar dead and turned to clay stopped no hole to keep the
      wind away. Dead Caesar was nothing but a tiresome bit of print in a book
      that schoolboys study for awhile and then forget. The Ambersons had
      passed, and the new people would pass, and the new people that came after
      them, and then the next new ones, and the next&mdash;and the next&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      He had begun to murmur, and the man on duty as night nurse for the ward
      came and bent over him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you want something?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s nothing in this family business,&rdquo; George told him confidentially.
      &ldquo;Even George Washington is only something in a book.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene read a report of the accident in the next morning&rsquo;s paper. He was
      on the train, having just left for New York, on business, and with less
      leisure would probably have overlooked the obscure item:
    </p>
    <p>
      LEGS BROKEN
    </p>
    <p>
      G. A. Minafer, an employee of the Akers Chemical Co., was run down by an
      automobile yesterday at the corner of Tennessee and Main and had both legs
      broken. Minafer was to blame for the accident according to patrolman F. A.
      Kax, who witnessed the affair. The automobile was a small one driven by
      Herbert Cottleman of 9173 Noble Avenue who stated that he was making less
      than 4 miles an hour. Minafer is said to belong to a family formerly of
      considerable prominence in the city. He was taken to the City Hospital
      where physicians stated later that he was suffering from internal injuries
      besides the fracture of his legs but might recover.
    </p>
    <p>
      Eugene read the item twice, then tossed the paper upon the opposite seat
      of his compartment, and sat looking out of the window. His feeling toward
      Georgie was changed not a jot by his human pity for Georgie&rsquo;s human pain
      and injury. He thought of Georgie&rsquo;s tall and graceful figure, and he
      shivered, but his bitterness was untouched. He had never blamed Isabel for
      the weakness which had cost them the few years of happiness they might
      have had together; he had put the blame all on the son, and it stayed
      there.
    </p>
    <p>
      He began to think poignantly of Isabel: he had seldom been able to &ldquo;see&rdquo;
       her more clearly than as he sat looking out of his compartment window,
      after reading the account of this accident. She might have been just on
      the other side of the glass, looking in at him&mdash;and then he thought
      of her as the pale figure of a woman, seen yet unseen, flying through the
      air, beside the train, over the fields of springtime green and through the
      woods that were just sprouting out their little leaves. He closed his eyes
      and saw her as she had been long ago. He saw the brown-eyed, brown-haired,
      proud, gentle, laughing girl he had known when first he came to town, a
      boy just out of the State College. He remembered&mdash;as he had
      remembered ten thousand times before&mdash;the look she gave him when her
      brother George introduced him to her at a picnic; it was &ldquo;like hazel
      starlight&rdquo; he had written her, in a poem, afterward. He remembered his
      first call at the Amberson Mansion, and what a great personage she seemed,
      at home in that magnificence; and yet so gay and friendly. He remembered
      the first time he had danced with her&mdash;and the old waltz song began
      to beat in his ears and in his heart. They laughed and sang it together as
      they danced to it:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, love for a year, a week, a day, But alas for the love that lasts
      always&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Most plainly of all he could see her dancing; and he became articulate in
      the mourning whisper: &ldquo;So graceful&mdash;oh, so graceful&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      All the way to New York it seemed to him that Isabel was near him, and he
      wrote of her to Lucy from his hotel the next night:
    </p>
    <p>
      I saw an account of the accident to George Minafer. I&rsquo;m sorry, though the
      paper states that it was plainly his own fault. I suppose it may have been
      as a result of my attention falling upon the item that I thought of his
      mother a great deal on the way here. It seemed to me that I had never seen
      her more distinctly or so constantly, but, as you know, thinking of his
      mother is not very apt to make me admire him! Of course, however, he has
      my best wishes for his recovery.
    </p>
    <p>
      He posted the letter, and by the morning&rsquo;s mail he received one from Lucy
      written a few hours after his departure from home. She enclosed the item
      he had read on the train.
    </p>
    <p>
      I thought you might not see it.
    </p>
    <p>
      I have seen Miss Fanny and she has got him put into a room by himself. Oh,
      poor Rides-Down-Everything I have been thinking so constantly of his
      mother and it seemed to me that I have never seen her more distinctly. How
      lovely she was&mdash;and how she loved him!
    </p>
    <p>
      If Lucy had not written this letter Eugene might not have done the odd
      thing he did that day. Nothing could have been more natural than that both
      he and Lucy should have thought intently of Isabel after reading the
      account of George&rsquo;s accident, but the fact that Lucy&rsquo;s letter had crossed
      his own made Eugene begin to wonder if a phenomenon of telepathy might not
      be in question, rather than a chance coincidence. The reference to Isabel
      in the two letters was almost identical: he and Lucy, it appeared, had
      been thinking of Isabel at the same time&mdash;both said &ldquo;constantly&rdquo;
       thinking of her&mdash;and neither had ever &ldquo;seen her more distinctly.&rdquo; He
      remembered these phrases in his own letter accurately.
    </p>
    <p>
      Reflection upon the circumstance stirred a queer spot in Eugene&rsquo;s brain&mdash;he
      had one. He was an adventurer; if he had lived in the sixteenth century he
      would have sailed the unknown new seas, but having been born in the latter
      part of the nineteenth, when geography was a fairly well-settled matter,
      he had become an explorer in mechanics. But the fact that he was a
      &ldquo;hard-headed business man&rdquo; as well as an adventurer did not keep him from
      having a queer spot in his brain, because hard-headed business men are as
      susceptible to such spots as adventurers are. Some of them are secretly
      troubled when they do not see the new moon over the lucky shoulder; some
      of them have strange, secret incredulities&mdash;they do not believe in
      geology, for instance; and some of them think they have had supernatural
      experiences. &ldquo;Of course there was nothing in it&mdash;still it was queer!&rdquo;
       they say.
    </p>
    <p>
      Two weeks after Isabel&rsquo;s death, Eugene had come to New York on urgent
      business and found that the delayed arrival of a steamer gave him a day
      with nothing to do. His room at the hotel had become intolerable; outdoors
      was intolerable; everything was intolerable. It seemed to him that he must
      see Isabel once more, hear her voice once more; that he must find some way
      to her, or lose his mind. Under this pressure he had gone, with complete
      scepticism, to a &ldquo;trance-medium&rdquo; of whom he had heard wild accounts from
      the wife of a business acquaintance. He thought despairingly that at least
      such an excursion would be &ldquo;trying to do something!&rdquo; He remembered the
      woman&rsquo;s name; found it in the telephone book, and made an appointment.
    </p>
    <p>
      The experience had been grotesque, and he came away with an encouraging
      message from his father, who had failed to identify himself
      satisfactorily, but declared that everything was &ldquo;on a higher plane&rdquo; in
      his present state of being, and that all life was &ldquo;continuous and
      progressive.&rdquo; Mrs. Horner spoke of herself as a &ldquo;psychic&rdquo;; but otherwise
      she seemed oddly unpretentious and matter-of-fact; and Eugene had no doubt
      at all of her sincerity. He was sure that she was not an intentional
      fraud, and though he departed in a state of annoyance with himself, he
      came to the conclusion that if any credulity were played upon by Mrs.
      Horner&rsquo;s exhibitions, it was her own.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nevertheless, his queer spot having been stimulated to action by the
      coincidence of the letters, he went to Mrs. Horner&rsquo;s after his directors&rsquo;
      meeting today. He used the telephone booth in the directors&rsquo; room to make
      the appointment; and he laughed feebly at himself, and wondered what the
      group of men in that mahogany apartment would think if they knew what he
      was doing. Mrs. Horner had changed her address, but he found the new one,
      and somebody purporting to be a niece of hers talked to him and made an
      appointment for a &ldquo;sitting&rdquo; at five o&rsquo;clock. He was prompt, and the niece,
      a dull-faced fat girl with a magazine under her arm, admitted him to Mrs.
      Horner&rsquo;s apartment, which smelt of camphor; and showed him into a room
      with gray painted walls, no rug on the floor and no furniture except a
      table (with nothing on it) and two chairs: one a leather easy-chair and
      the other a stiff little brute with a wooden seat. There was one window
      with the shade pulled down to the sill, but the sun was bright outside,
      and the room had light enough.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Horner appeared in the doorway, a wan and unenterprising looking
      woman in brown, with thin hair artificially waved&mdash;but not recently&mdash;and
      parted in the middle over a bluish forehead. Her eyes were small and
      seemed weak, but she recognized the visitor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, you been here before,&rdquo; she said, in a thin voice, not unmusical. &ldquo;I
      recollect you. Quite a time ago, wa&rsquo;n&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, quite a long time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I recollect because I recollect you was disappointed. Anyway, you was
      kind of cross.&rdquo; She laughed faintly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry if I seemed so,&rdquo; Eugene said. &ldquo;Do you happen to have found out
      my name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked surprised and a little reproachful. &ldquo;Why, no. I never try to
      find out people&rsquo;s name. Why should I? I don&rsquo;t claim anything for the
      power; I only know I have it&mdash;and some ways it ain&rsquo;t always such a
      blessing, neither, I can tell you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene did not press an investigation of her meaning, but said vaguely, &ldquo;I
      suppose not. Shall we&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All right,&rdquo; she assented, dropping into the leather chair, with her back
      to the shaded window. &ldquo;You better set down, too, I reckon. I hope you&rsquo;ll
      get something this time so you won&rsquo;t feel cross, but I dunno. I can&rsquo;t
      never tell what they&rsquo;ll do. Well&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She sighed, closed her eyes, and was silent, while Eugene, seated in the
      stiff chair across the table from her, watched her profile, thought
      himself an idiot, and called himself that and other names. And as the
      silence continued, and the impassive woman in the easy-chair remained
      impassive, he began to wonder what had led him to be such a fool. It
      became clear to him that the similarity of his letter and Lucy&rsquo;s needed no
      explanation involving telepathy, and was not even an extraordinary
      coincidence. What, then, had brought him back to this absurd place and
      caused him to be watching this absurd woman taking a nap in a chair? In
      brief: What the devil did he mean by it? He had not the slightest interest
      in Mrs. Horner&rsquo;s naps&mdash;or in her teeth, which were being slightly
      revealed by the unconscious parting of her lips, as her breathing became
      heavier. If the vagaries of his own mind had brought him into such a
      grotesquerie as this, into what did the vagaries of other men&rsquo;s minds take
      them? Confident that he was ordinarily saner than most people, he
      perceived that since he was capable of doing a thing like this, other men
      did even more idiotic things, in secret. And he had a fleeting vision of
      sober-looking bankers and manufacturers and lawyers, well-dressed
      church-going men, sound citizens&mdash;and all as queer as the deuce
      inside!
    </p>
    <p>
      How long was he going to sit here presiding over this unknown woman&rsquo;s
      slumbers? It struck him that to make the picture complete he ought to be
      shooing flies away from her with a palm-leaf fan.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Horner&rsquo;s parted lips closed again abruptly, and became compressed;
      her shoulders moved a little, then jerked repeatedly; her small chest
      heaved; she gasped, and the compressed lips relaxed to a slight
      contortion, then began to move, whispering and bringing forth
      indistinguishable mutterings.
    </p>
    <p>
      Suddenly she spoke in a loud, husky voice:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lopa is here!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; Eugene said dryly. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s what you said last time. I remember
      &lsquo;Lopa.&rsquo; She&rsquo;s your &lsquo;control&rsquo; I think you said.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m Lopa,&rdquo; said the husky voice. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m Lopa herself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mean I&rsquo;m to suppose you&rsquo;re not Mrs. Horner now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never was Mrs. Horner!&rdquo; the voice declared, speaking undeniably from Mrs.
      Horner&rsquo;s lips&mdash;but with such conviction that Eugene, in spite of
      everything, began to feel himself in the presence of a third party, who
      was none the less an individual, even though she might be another edition
      of the apparently somnambulistic Mrs. Horner. &ldquo;Never was Mrs. Horner or
      anybody but just Lopa. Guide.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mean you&rsquo;re Mrs. Horner&rsquo;s guide?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your guide now,&rdquo; said the voice with emphasis, to which was incongruously
      added a low laugh. &ldquo;You came here once before. Lopa remembers.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes&mdash;so did Mrs. Horner.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lopa overlooked his implication, and continued, quickly: &ldquo;You build. Build
      things that go. You came here once and old gentleman on this side, he
      spoke to you. Same old gentleman here now. He tell Lopa he&rsquo;s your
      grandfather&mdash;no, he says &lsquo;father.&rsquo; He&rsquo;s your father.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s his appearance?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What does he look like?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very fine! White beard, but not long beard. He says someone else wants to
      speak to you. See here. Lady. Not his wife, though. No. Very fine lady!
      Fine lady, fine lady!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it my sister?&rdquo; Eugene asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sister? No. She is shaking her head. She has pretty brown hair. She is
      fond of you. She is someone who knows you very well but she is not your
      sister. She is very anxious to say something to you&mdash;very anxious.
      Very fond of you; very anxious to talk to you. Very glad you came here&mdash;oh,
      very, glad!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is her name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Name,&rdquo; the voice repeated, and seemed to ruminate. &ldquo;Name hard to get&mdash;always
      very hard for Lopa. Name. She wants to tell me her name to tell you. She
      wants you to understand names are hard to make. She says you must think of
      something that makes a sound.&rdquo; Here the voice seemed to put a question to
      an invisible presence and to receive an answer. &ldquo;A little sound or a big
      sound? She says it might be a little sound or a big sound. She says a ring&mdash;oh,
      Lopa knows! She means a bell! That&rsquo;s it, a bell.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene looked grave. &ldquo;Does she mean her name is Belle?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not quite. Her name is longer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps,&rdquo; he suggested, &ldquo;she means that she was a belle.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. She says she thinks you know what she means. She says you must think
      of a colour. What colour?&rdquo; Again Lopa addressed the unknown, but this time
      seemed to wait for an answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps she means the colour of her eyes,&rdquo; said Eugene.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. She says her colour is light&mdash;it&rsquo;s a light colour and you can
      see through it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Amber?&rdquo; he said, and was startled, for Mrs. Horner, with her eyes still
      closed, clapped her hands, and the voice cried out in delight:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes! She says you know who she is from amber. Amber! Amber! That&rsquo;s it!
      She says you understand what her name is from a bell and from amber. She
      is laughing and waving a lace handkerchief at me because she is pleased.
      She says I have made you know who it is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This was the strangest moment of Eugene&rsquo;s life, because, while it lasted,
      he believed that Isabel Amberson, who was dead, had found means to speak
      to him. Though within ten minutes he doubted it, he believed it then.
    </p>
    <p>
      His elbows pressed hard upon the table, and, his head between his hands,
      he leaned forward, staring at the commonplace figure in the easy-chair.
      &ldquo;What does she wish to say to me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She is happy because you know her. No&mdash;she is troubled. Oh&mdash;a
      great trouble! Something she wants to tell you. She wants so much to tell
      you. She wants Lopa to tell you. This is a great trouble. She says&mdash;oh,
      yes, she wants you to be&mdash;to be kind! That&rsquo;s what she says. That&rsquo;s
      it. To be kind.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Does she&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She wants you to be kind,&rdquo; said the voice. &ldquo;She nods when I tell you
      this. Yes; it must be right. She is a very fine lady. Very pretty. She is
      so anxious for you to understand. She hopes and hopes you will. Someone
      else wants to speak to you. This is a man. He says&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to speak to any one else,&rdquo; said Eugene quickly. &ldquo;I want&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This man who has come says that he is a friend of yours. He says&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene struck the table with his fist. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to speak to any one
      else, I tell you!&rdquo; he cried passionately. &ldquo;If she is there I&mdash;&rdquo; He
      caught his breath sharply, checked himself, and sat in amazement. Could
      his mind so easily accept so stupendous a thing as true? Evidently it
      could!
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Horner spoke languidly in her own voice: &ldquo;Did you get anything
      satisfactory?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;I certainly hope it wasn&rsquo;t like that other time
      when you was cross because they couldn&rsquo;t get anything for you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no,&rdquo; he said hastily. &ldquo;This was different It was very interesting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paid her, went to his hotel, and thence to his train for home. Never
      did he so seem to move through a world of dream-stuff: for he knew that he
      was not more credulous than other men, and, if he could believe what he
      had believed, though he had believed it for no longer than a moment or
      two, what hold had he or any other human being on reality?
    </p>
    <p>
      His credulity vanished (or so he thought) with his recollection that it
      was he, and not the alleged &ldquo;Lopa,&rdquo; who had suggested the word &ldquo;amber.&rdquo;
       Going over the mortifying, plain facts of his experience, he found that
      Mrs. Horner, or the subdivision of Mrs. Horner known as &ldquo;Lopa,&rdquo; had told
      him to think of a bell and of a colour, and that being furnished with
      these scientific data, he had leaped to the conclusion that he spoke with
      Isabel Amberson!
    </p>
    <p>
      For a moment he had believed that Isabel was there, believed that she was
      close to him, entreating him&mdash;entreating him &ldquo;to be kind.&rdquo; But with
      this recollection a strange agitation came upon him. After all, had she
      not spoken to him? If his own unknown consciousness had told the
      &ldquo;psychic&rsquo;s&rdquo; unknown consciousness how to make the picture of the pretty
      brown-haired, brown-eyed lady, hadn&rsquo;t the picture been a true one? And
      hadn&rsquo;t the true Isabel&mdash;oh, indeed her very soul!&mdash;called to him
      out of his own true memory of her?
    </p>
    <p>
      And as the train roared through the darkened evening he looked out beyond
      his window, and saw her as he had seen her on his journey, a few days ago&mdash;an
      ethereal figure flying beside the train, but now it seemed to him that she
      kept her face toward his window with an infinite wistfulness.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To be kind!&rdquo; If it had been Isabel, was that what she would have said? If
      she were anywhere, and could come to him through the invisible wall, what
      would be the first thing she would say to him?
    </p>
    <p>
      Ah, well enough, and perhaps bitterly enough, he knew the answer to that
      question! &ldquo;To be kind&rdquo;&mdash;to Georgie!
    </p>
    <p>
      A red-cap at the station, when he arrived, leaped for his bag, abandoning
      another which the Pullman porter had handed him. &ldquo;Yessuh, Mist&rsquo; Morgan.
      Yessuh. You&rsquo; car waitin&rsquo; front the station fer you, Mist&rsquo; Morgan, suh!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And people in the crowd about the gates turned to stare, as he passed
      through, whispering, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s Morgan.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Outside, the neat chauffeur stood at the door of the touring-car like a
      soldier in whip-cord.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll not go home now, Harry,&rdquo; said Eugene, when he had got in. &ldquo;Drive to
      the City Hospital.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir,&rdquo; the man returned. &ldquo;Miss Lucy&rsquo;s there. She said she expected
      you&rsquo;d come there before you went home.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She did?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Eugene stared. &ldquo;I suppose Mr. Minafer must be pretty bad,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir. I understand he&rsquo;s liable to get well, though, sir.&rdquo; He moved
      his lever into high speed, and the car went through the heavy traffic like
      some fast, faithful beast that knew its way about, and knew its master&rsquo;s
      need of haste. Eugene did not speak again until they reached the hospital.
    </p>
    <p>
      Fanny met him in the upper corridor, and took him to an open door.
    </p>
    <p>
      He stopped on the threshold, startled; for, from the waxen face on the
      pillow, almost it seemed the eyes of Isabel herself were looking at him:
      never before had the resemblance between mother and son been so strong&mdash;and
      Eugene knew that now he had once seen it thus startlingly, he need divest
      himself of no bitterness &ldquo;to be kind&rdquo; to Georgie.
    </p>
    <p>
      George was startled, too. He lifted a white hand in a queer gesture, half
      forbidding, half imploring, and then let his arm fall back upon the
      coverlet. &ldquo;You must have thought my mother wanted you to come,&rdquo; he said,
      &ldquo;so that I could ask you to&mdash;to forgive me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Lucy, who sat beside him, lifted ineffable eyes from him to her
      father, and shook her head. &ldquo;No, just to take his hand&mdash;gently!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She was radiant.
    </p>
    <p>
      But for Eugene another radiance filled the room. He knew that he had been
      true at last to his true love, and that through him she had brought her
      boy under shelter again. Her eyes would look wistful no more.
    </p>
</section></body></html>
