<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 4</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h2>
    <p>
      When Mr. George Amberson Minafer came home for the holidays at
      Christmastide, in his sophomore year, probably no great change had taken
      place inside him, but his exterior was visibly altered. Nothing about him
      encouraged any hope that he had received his come-upance; on the contrary,
      the yearners for that stroke of justice must yearn even more itchingly:
      the gilded youth&rsquo;s manner had become polite, but his politeness was of a
      kind which democratic people found hard to bear. In a word, M. le Due had
      returned from the gay life of the capital to show himself for a week among
      the loyal peasants belonging to the old chateau, and their quaint habits
      and costumes afforded him a mild amusement.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cards were out for a ball in his honour, and this pageant of the tenantry
      was held in the ballroom of the Amberson Mansion the night after his
      arrival. It was, as Mrs. Henry Franklin Foster said of Isabel&rsquo;s wedding,
      &ldquo;a big Amberson-style thing,&rdquo; though that wise Mrs. Henry Franklin Foster
      had long ago gone the way of all wisdom, having stepped out of the Midland
      town, unquestionably into heaven&mdash;a long step, but not beyond her
      powers. She had successors, but no successor; the town having grown too
      large to confess that it was intellectually led and literarily
      authoritated by one person; and some of these successors were not invited
      to the ball, for dimensions were now so metropolitan that intellectual
      leaders and literary authorities loomed in outlying regions unfamiliar to
      the Ambersons. However, all &ldquo;old citizens&rdquo; recognizable as gentry received
      cards, and of course so did their dancing descendants.
    </p>
    <p>
      The orchestra and the caterer were brought from away, in the Amberson
      manner, though this was really a gesture&mdash;perhaps one more of habit
      than of ostentation&mdash;for servitors of gaiety as proficient as these
      importations were nowadays to be found in the town. Even flowers and
      plants and roped vines were brought from afar&mdash;not, however, until
      the stock of the local florists proved insufficient to obliterate the
      interior structure of the big house, in the Amberson way. It was the last
      of the great, long remembered dances that &ldquo;everybody talked about&rdquo;&mdash;there
      were getting to be so many people in town that no later than the next year
      there were too many for &ldquo;everybody&rdquo; to hear of even such a ball as the
      Ambersons&rsquo;.
    </p>
    <p>
      George, white-gloved, with a gardenia in his buttonhole, stood with his
      mother and the Major, embowered in the big red and gold drawing room
      downstairs, to &ldquo;receive&rdquo; the guests; and, standing thus together, the trio
      offered a picturesque example of good looks persistent through three
      generations. The Major, his daughter, and his grandson were of a type all
      Amberson: tall, straight, and regular, with dark eyes, short noses, good
      chins; and the grandfather&rsquo;s expression, no less than the grandson&rsquo;s, was
      one of faintly amused condescension. There was a difference, however. The
      grandson&rsquo;s unlined young face had nothing to offer except this
      condescension; the grandfather&rsquo;s had other things to say. It was a
      handsome, worldly old face, conscious of its importance, but persuasive
      rather than arrogant, and not without tokens of sufferings withstood. The
      Major&rsquo;s short white hair was parted in the middle, like his grandson&rsquo;s,
      and in all he stood as briskly equipped to the fashion as exquisite young
      George.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel, standing between her father and her son caused a vague amazement
      in the mind of the latter. Her age, just under forty, was for George a
      thought of something as remote as the moons of Jupiter: he could not
      possibly have conceived such an age ever coming to be his own: five years
      was the limit of his thinking in time. Five years ago he had been a child
      not yet fourteen; and those five years were an abyss. Five years hence he
      would be almost twenty-four; what the girls he knew called &ldquo;one of the
      older men.&rdquo; He could imagine himself at twenty-four, but beyond that, his
      powers staggered and refused the task. He saw little essential difference
      between thirty-eight and eighty-eight, and his mother was to him not a
      woman but wholly a mother. He had no perception of her other than as an
      adjunct to himself, his mother; nor could he imagine her thinking or doing
      anything&mdash;falling in love, walking with a friend, or reading a book&mdash;as
      a woman, and not as his mother. The woman, Isabel, was a stranger to her
      son; as completely a stranger as if he had never in his life seen her or
      heard her voice. And it was to-night, while he stood with her,
      &ldquo;receiving,&rdquo; that he caught a disquieting glimpse of this stranger whom he
      thus fleetingly encountered for the first time.
    </p>
    <p>
      Youth cannot imagine romance apart from youth. That is why the roles of
      the heroes and heroines of plays are given by the managers to the most
      youthful actors they can find among the competent. Both middle-aged people
      and young people enjoy a play about young lovers; but only middle-aged
      people will tolerate a play about middle-aged lovers; young people will
      not come to see such a play, because, for them, middle-aged lovers are a
      joke&mdash;not a very funny one. Therefore, to bring both the middle-aged
      people and the young people into his house, the manager makes his romance
      as young as he can. Youth will indeed be served, and its profound instinct
      is to be not only scornfully amused but vaguely angered by middle-age
      romance. So, standing beside his mother, George was disturbed by a sudden
      impression, coming upon him out of nowhere, so far as he could detect,
      that her eyes were brilliant, that she was graceful and youthful&mdash;in
      a word, that she was romantically lovely.
    </p>
    <p>
      He had one of those curious moments that seem to have neither a cause nor
      any connection with actual things. While it lasted, he was disquieted not
      by thoughts&mdash;for he had no definite thoughts&mdash;but by a slight
      emotion like that caused in a dream by the presence of something invisible
      soundless, and yet fantastic. There was nothing different or new about his
      mother, except her new black and silver dress: she was standing there
      beside him, bending her head a little in her greetings, smiling the same
      smile she had worn for the half-hour that people had been passing the
      &ldquo;receiving&rdquo; group. Her face was flushed, but the room was warm; and
      shaking hands with so many people easily accounted for the pretty glow
      that was upon her. At any time she could have &ldquo;passed&rdquo; for twenty-five or
      twenty-six&mdash;a man of fifty would have honestly guessed her to be
      about thirty but possibly two or three years younger&mdash;and though
      extraordinary in this, she had been extraordinary in it for years. There
      was nothing in either her looks or her manner to explain George&rsquo;s
      uncomfortable feeling; and yet it increased, becoming suddenly a vague
      resentment, as if she had done something unmotherly to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The fantastic moment passed; and even while it lasted, he was doing his
      duty, greeting two pretty girls with whom he had grown up, as people say,
      and warmly assuring them that he remembered them very well&mdash;an
      assurance which might have surprised them &ldquo;in anybody but Georgie
      Minafer!&rdquo; It seemed unnecessary, since he had spent many hours with them
      no longer ago than the preceding August, They had with them their parents
      and an uncle from out of town; and George negligently gave the parents the
      same assurance he had given the daughters, but murmured another form of
      greeting to the out-of-town uncle, whom he had never seen before. This
      person George absently took note of as a &ldquo;queer-looking duck.&rdquo;
       Undergraduates had not yet adopted &ldquo;bird.&rdquo; It was a period previous to
      that in which a sophomore would have thought of the Sharon girls&rsquo; uncle as
      a &ldquo;queer-looking bird,&rdquo; or, perhaps a &ldquo;funny-face bird.&rdquo; In George&rsquo;s time,
      every human male was to be defined, at pleasure, as a &ldquo;duck&rdquo;; but &ldquo;duck&rdquo;
       was not spoken with admiring affection, as in its former feminine use to
      signify a &ldquo;dear&rdquo;&mdash;on the contrary, &ldquo;duck&rdquo; implied the speaker&rsquo;s
      personal detachment and humorous superiority. An indifferent amusement was
      what George felt when his mother, with a gentle emphasis, interrupted his
      interchange of courtesies with the nieces to present him to the
      queer-looking duck their uncle. This emphasis of Isabel&rsquo;s, though slight,
      enabled George to perceive that she considered the queer-looking duck a
      person of some importance; but it was far from enabling him to understand
      why. The duck parted his thick and longish black hair on the side; his tie
      was a forgetful looking thing, and his coat, though it fitted a good
      enough middle-aged figure, no product of this year, or of last year
      either. One of his eyebrows was noticeably higher than the other; and
      there were whimsical lines between them, which gave him an apprehensive
      expression; but his apprehensions were evidently more humorous than
      profound, for his prevailing look was that of a genial man of affairs, not
      much afraid of anything whatever Nevertheless, observing only his
      unfashionable hair, his eyebrows, his preoccupied tie and his old coat,
      the olympic George set him down as a queer-looking duck, and having thus
      completed his portrait, took no interest in him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Sharon girls passed on, taking the queer-looking duck with them, and
      George became pink with mortification as his mother called his attention
      to a white-bearded guest waiting to shake his hand. This was George&rsquo;s
      great-uncle, old John Minafer: it was old John&rsquo;s boast that in spite of
      his connection by marriage with the Ambersons, he never had worn and never
      would wear a swaller-tail coat. Members of his family had exerted their
      influence uselessly&mdash;at eighty-nine conservative people seldom form
      radical new habits, and old John wore his &ldquo;Sunday suit&rdquo; of black
      broadcloth to the Amberson ball. The coat was square, with skirts to the
      knees; old John called it a &ldquo;Prince Albert&rdquo; and was well enough pleased
      with it, but his great-nephew considered it the next thing to an insult.
      George&rsquo;s purpose had been to ignore the man, but he had to take his hand
      for a moment; whereupon old John began to tell George that he was looking
      well, though there had been a time, during his fourth month, when he was
      so puny that nobody thought he would live. The great-nephew, in a fury of
      blushes, dropped old John&rsquo;s hand with some vigour, and seized that of the
      next person in the line. &ldquo;Member you v&rsquo;ry well &lsquo;ndeed!&rdquo; he said fiercely.
    </p>
    <p>
      The large room had filled, and so had the broad hall and the rooms on the
      other side of the hall, where there were tables for whist. The imported
      orchestra waited in the ballroom on the third floor, but a local harp,
      &lsquo;cello, violin, and flute were playing airs from &ldquo;The Fencing Master&rdquo; in
      the hall, and people were shouting over the music. Old John Minafer&rsquo;s
      voice was louder and more penetrating than any other, because he had been
      troubled with deafness for twenty-five years, heard his own voice but
      faintly, and liked to hear it. &ldquo;Smell o&rsquo; flowers like this always puts me
      in mind o&rsquo; funerals,&rdquo; he kept telling his niece, Fanny Minafer, who was
      with him; and he seemed to get a great deal of satisfaction out of this
      reminder. His tremulous yet strident voice cut through the voluminous
      sound that filled the room, and he was heard everywhere: &ldquo;Always got to
      think o&rsquo; funerals when I smell so many flowers!&rdquo; And, as the pressure of
      people forced Fanny and himself against the white marble mantelpiece, he
      pursued this train of cheery thought, shouting, &ldquo;Right here&rsquo;s where the
      Major&rsquo;s wife was laid out at her funeral. They had her in a good light
      from that big bow window.&rdquo; He paused to chuckle mournfully. &ldquo;I s&rsquo;pose
      that&rsquo;s where they&rsquo;ll put the Major when his time comes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Presently George&rsquo;s mortification was increased to hear this sawmill
      droning harshly from the midst of the thickening crowd: &ldquo;Ain&rsquo;t the dancin&rsquo;
      broke out yet, Fanny? Hoopla! Le&rsquo;s push through and go see the young
      women-folks crack their heels! Start the circus! Hoopse-daisy!&rdquo; Miss Fanny
      Minafer, in charge of the lively veteran, was almost as distressed as her
      nephew George, but she did her duty and managed to get old John through
      the press and out to the broad stairway, which numbers of young people
      were now ascending to the ballroom. And here the sawmill voice still rose
      over all others: &ldquo;Solid black walnut every inch of it, balustrades and
      all. Sixty thousand dollars&rsquo; worth o&rsquo; carved woodwork in the house! Like
      water! Spent money like water! Always did! Still do! Like water! God knows
      where it all comes from!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He continued the ascent, barking and coughing among the gleaming young
      heads, white shoulders, jewels, and chiffon, like an old dog slowly
      swimming up the rapids of a sparkling river; while down below, in the
      drawing room, George began to recover from the degradation into which this
      relic of early settler days had dragged him. What restored him completely
      was a dark-eyed little beauty of nineteen, very knowing in lustrous blue
      and jet; at sight of this dashing advent in the line of guests before him,
      George was fully an Amberson again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Remember you very well indeed!&rdquo; he said, his graciousness more earnest
      than any he had heretofore displayed. Isabel heard him and laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you don&rsquo;t, George!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t remember her yet, though of
      course you will! Miss Morgan is from out of town, and I&rsquo;m afraid this is
      the first time you&rsquo;ve ever seen her. You might take her up to the dancing;
      I think you&rsquo;ve pretty well done your duty here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be d&rsquo;lighted,&rdquo; George responded formally, and offered his arm, not with a
      flourish, certainly, but with an impressiveness inspired partly by the
      appearance of the person to whom he offered it, partly by his being the
      hero of this fete, and partly by his youthfulness&mdash;for when manners
      are new they are apt to be elaborate. The little beauty entrusted her
      gloved fingers to his coat-sleeve, and they moved away together.
    </p>
    <p>
      Their progress was necessarily slow, and to George&rsquo;s mind it did not lack
      stateliness. How could it? Musicians, hired especially for him, were
      sitting in a grove of palms in the hall and now tenderly playing &ldquo;Oh,
      Promise Me&rdquo; for his pleasuring; dozens and scores of flowers had been
      brought to life and tended to this hour that they might sweeten the air
      for him while they died; and the evanescent power that music and floral
      scents hold over youth stirred his appreciation of strange, beautiful
      qualities within his own bosom: he seemed to himself to be mysteriously
      angelic, and about to do something which would overwhelm the beautiful
      young stranger upon his arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      Elderly people and middle-aged people moved away to let him pass with his
      honoured fair beside him. Worthy middle-class creatures, they seemed,
      leading dull lives but appreciative of better things when they saw them&mdash;and
      George&rsquo;s bosom was fleetingly touched with a pitying kindness. And since
      the primordial day when caste or heritage first set one person, in his own
      esteem, above his fellow-beings, it is to be doubted if anybody ever felt
      more illustrious, or more negligently grand, than George Amberson Minafer
      felt at this party.
    </p>
    <p>
      As he conducted Miss Morgan through the hall, toward the stairway, they
      passed the open double doors of a card room, where some squadrons of older
      people were preparing for action, and, leaning gracefully upon the
      mantelpiece of this room, a tall man, handsome, high-mannered, and
      sparklingly point-device, held laughing converse with that queer-looking
      duck, the Sharon girls&rsquo; uncle. The tall gentleman waved a gracious
      salutation to George, and Miss Morgan&rsquo;s curiosity was stirred. &ldquo;Who is
      that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t catch his name when my mother presented him to me,&rdquo; said George.
      &ldquo;You mean the queer-looking duck.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean the aristocratic duck.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s my Uncle George Honourable George Amberson. I thought everybody
      knew him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He looks as though everybody ought to know him,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;It seems to
      run in your family.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If she had any sly intention, it skipped over George harmlessly. &ldquo;Well, of
      course, I suppose most everybody does,&rdquo; he admitted&mdash;&ldquo;out in this
      part of the country especially. Besides, Uncle George is in Congress; the
      family like to have someone there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s sort of a good thing in one way. For instance, my Uncle Sydney
      Amberson and his wife, Aunt Amelia, they haven&rsquo;t got much of anything to
      do with themselves&mdash;get bored to death around here, of course. Well,
      probably Uncle George&rsquo;ll have Uncle Sydney appointed minister or
      ambassador, or something like that, to Russia or Italy or somewhere, and
      that&rsquo;ll make it pleasant when any of the rest of the family go travelling,
      or things like that. I expect to do a good deal of travelling myself when
      I get out of college.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On the stairway he pointed out this prospective ambassadorial couple,
      Sydney and Amelia. They were coming down, fronting the ascending tide, and
      as conspicuous over it as a king and queen in a play. Moreover, as the
      clear-eyed Miss Morgan remarked, the very least they looked was
      ambassadorial. Sydney was an Amberson exaggerated, more pompous than
      gracious; too portly, flushed, starched to a shine, his stately jowl
      furnished with an Edward the Seventh beard. Amelia, likewise full-bodied,
      showed glittering blond hair exuberantly dressed; a pink, fat face cold
      under a white-hot tiara; a solid, cold bosom under a white-hot necklace;
      great, cold, gloved arms, and the rest of her beautifully upholstered.
      Amelia was an Amberson born, herself, Sydney&rsquo;s second-cousin: they had no
      children, and Sydney was without a business or a profession; thus both
      found a great deal of time to think about the appropriateness of their
      becoming Excellencies. And as George ascended the broad stairway, they
      were precisely the aunt and uncle he was most pleased to point out, to a
      girl from out of town, as his appurtenances in the way of relatives. At
      sight of them the grandeur of the Amberson family was instantly
      conspicuous as a permanent thing: it was impossible to doubt that the
      Ambersons were entrenched, in their nobility and riches, behind polished
      and glittering barriers which were as solid as they were brilliant, and
      would last.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0005" id="link2HCH0005">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
