<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 20</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XX</h2>
    <p>
      Isabel came to George&rsquo;s door that night, and when she had kissed him
      good-night she remained in the open doorway with her hand upon his
      shoulder and her eyes thoughtfully lowered, so that her wish to say
      something more than good-night was evident. Not less obvious was her
      perplexity about the manner of saying it; and George, divining her
      thought, amiably made an opening for her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, old lady,&rdquo; he said indulgently, &ldquo;you needn&rsquo;t look so worried. I
      won&rsquo;t be tactless with Morgan again. After this I&rsquo;ll just keep out of his
      way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel looked up, searching his face with the fond puzzlement which her
      eyes sometimes showed when they rested upon him; then she glanced down the
      hall toward Fanny&rsquo;s room, and, after another moment of hesitation, came
      quickly in, and closed the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dear,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;I wish you&rsquo;d tell me something: Why don&rsquo;t you like
      Eugene?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, I like him well enough,&rdquo; George returned, with a short laugh, as he
      sat down and began to unlace his shoes. &ldquo;I like him well enough&mdash;in
      his place.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, dear,&rdquo; she said hurriedly. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve had a feeling from the very first
      that you didn&rsquo;t really like him&mdash;that you really never liked him.
      Sometimes you&rsquo;ve seemed to be friendly with him, and you&rsquo;d laugh with him
      over something in a jolly, companionable way, and I&rsquo;d think I was wrong,
      and that you really did like him, after all; but to-night I&rsquo;m sure my
      other feeling was the right one: you don&rsquo;t like him. I can&rsquo;t understand
      it, dear; I don&rsquo;t see what can be the matter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing&rsquo;s the matter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This easy declaration naturally failed to carry great weight, and Isabel
      went on, in her troubled voice, &ldquo;It seems so queer, especially when you
      feel as you do about his daughter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this, George stopped unlacing his shoes abruptly, and sat up. &ldquo;How do I
      feel about his daughter?&rdquo; he demanded.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s seemed&mdash;as if&mdash;as if&mdash;&rdquo; Isabel began timidly.
      &ldquo;It did seem&mdash;At least, you haven&rsquo;t looked at any other girl, ever
      since they came here and&mdash;and certainly you&rsquo;ve seemed very much
      interested in her. Certainly you&rsquo;ve been very great friends?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, what of that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s only that I&rsquo;m like your grandfather: I can&rsquo;t see how you could be so
      much interested in a girl and&mdash;and not feel very pleasantly toward
      her father.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something,&rdquo; George said slowly; and a frown of
      concentration could be seen upon his brow, as from a profound effort at
      self-examination. &ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t ever thought much on that particular point,
      but I admit there may be a little something in what you say. The truth is,
      I don&rsquo;t believe I&rsquo;ve ever thought of the two together, exactly&mdash;at
      least, not until lately. I&rsquo;ve always thought of Lucy just as Lucy, and of
      Morgan just as Morgan. I&rsquo;ve always thought of her as a person herself, not
      as anybody&rsquo;s daughter. I don&rsquo;t see what&rsquo;s very extraordinary about that.
      You&rsquo;ve probably got plenty of friends, for instance, that don&rsquo;t care much
      about your son&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, indeed!&rdquo; she protested quickly. &ldquo;And if I knew anybody who felt like
      that, I wouldn&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never mind,&rdquo; he interrupted. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll try to explain a little more. If I
      have a friend, I don&rsquo;t see that it&rsquo;s incumbent upon me to like that
      friend&rsquo;s relatives. If I didn&rsquo;t like them, and pretended to, I&rsquo;d be a
      hypocrite. If that friend likes me and wants to stay my friend &lsquo;he&rsquo;ll have
      to stand my not liking his relatives, or else he can quit. I decline to be
      a hypocrite about it; that&rsquo;s all. Now, suppose I have certain ideas or
      ideals which I have chosen for the regulation of my own conduct in life.
      Suppose some friend of mine has a relative with ideals directly the
      opposite of mine, and my friend believes more in the relative&rsquo;s ideals
      than in mine: Do you think I ought to give up my own just to please a
      person who&rsquo;s taken up ideals that I really despise?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, dear; of course people can&rsquo;t give up their ideals; but I don&rsquo;t see
      what this has to do with dear little Lucy and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t say it had anything to do with them,&rdquo; he interrupted. &ldquo;I was
      merely putting a case to show how a person would be justified in being a
      friend of one member of a family, and feeling anything but friendly toward
      another. I don&rsquo;t say, though, that I feel unfriendly to Mr. Morgan. I
      don&rsquo;t say that I feel friendly to him, and I don&rsquo;t say that I feel
      unfriendly; but if you really think that I was rude to him to-night&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just thoughtless, dear. You didn&rsquo;t see that what you said to-night&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;ll not say anything of that sort again where he can hear it.
      There, isn&rsquo;t that enough?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This question, delivered with large indulgence, met with no response; for
      Isabel, still searching his face with her troubled and perplexed gaze,
      seemed not to have heard it. On that account, George repeated it, and
      rising, went to her and patted her reassuringly upon the shoulder. &ldquo;There,
      old lady, you needn&rsquo;t fear my tactlessness will worry you again. I can&rsquo;t
      quite promise to like people I don&rsquo;t care about one way or another, but
      you can be sure I&rsquo;ll be careful, after this, not to let them see it. It&rsquo;s
      all right, and you&rsquo;d better toddle along to bed, because I want to
      undress.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, George,&rdquo; she said earnestly, &ldquo;you would like him, if you&rsquo;d just let
      yourself. You say you don&rsquo;t dislike him. Why don&rsquo;t you like him? I can&rsquo;t
      understand at all. What is it that you don&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There, there!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all right, and you toddle along.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, George, dear&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now, now! I really do want to get into bed. Good-night, old lady.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-night, dear. But&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s not talk of it any more,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all right, and nothing in
      the world to worry about. So good-night, old lady. I&rsquo;ll be polite enough
      to him, never fear&mdash;if we happen to be thrown together. So
      good-night!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, George, dear&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to bed, old lady; so good-night.&rdquo;&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus the interview closed perforce. She kissed him again before going
      slowly to her own room, her perplexity evidently not dispersed; but the
      subject was not renewed between them the next day or subsequently. Nor did
      Fanny make any allusion to the cryptic approbation she had bestowed upon
      her nephew after the Major&rsquo;s &ldquo;not very successful little dinner&rdquo;; though
      she annoyed George by looking at him oftener and longer than he cared to
      be looked at by an aunt. He could not glance her way, it seemed, without
      finding her red-rimmed eyes fixed upon him eagerly, with an alert and
      hopeful calculation in them which he declared would send a nervous man,
      into fits. For thus, one day, he broke out, in protest:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It would!&rdquo; he repeated vehemently. &ldquo;Given time it would&mdash;straight
      into fits! What do you find the matter with me? Is my tie always slipping
      up behind? Can&rsquo;t you look at something else? My Lord! We&rsquo;d better buy a
      cat for you to stare at, Aunt Fanny! A cat could stand it, maybe. What in
      the name of goodness do you expect to see?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Fanny laughed good-naturedly, and was not offended. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s more as if I
      expected you to see something, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo; she said quietly, still
      laughing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now, what do you mean by that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never mind!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All right, I don&rsquo;t. But for heaven&rsquo;s sake stare at somebody else awhile.
      Try it on the house-maid!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, well,&rdquo; Fanny said indulgently, and then chose to be more obscure in
      her meaning than ever, for she adopted a tone of deep sympathy for her
      final remark, as she left him: &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t wonder you&rsquo;re nervous these days,
      poor boy!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And George indignantly supposed that she referred to the ordeal of Lucy&rsquo;s
      continued absence. During this period he successfully avoided contact with
      Lucy&rsquo;s father, though Eugene came frequently to the house, and spent
      several evenings with Isabel and Fanny; and sometimes persuaded them and
      the Major to go for an afternoon&rsquo;s motoring. He did not, however, come
      again to the Major&rsquo;s Sunday evening dinner, even when George Amberson
      returned. Sunday evening was the time, he explained, for going over the
      week&rsquo;s work with his factory managers.
    </p>
    <p>
      When Lucy came home the autumn was far enough advanced to smell of burning
      leaves, and for the annual editorials, in the papers, on the purple haze,
      the golden branches, the ruddy fruit, and the pleasure of long tramps in
      the brown forest. George had not heard of her arrival, and he met her, on
      the afternoon following that event, at the Sharons&rsquo;, where he had gone in
      the secret hope that he might hear something about her. Janie Sharon had
      just begun to tell him that she heard Lucy was expected home soon, after
      having &ldquo;a perfectly gorgeous time&rdquo;&mdash;information which George received
      with no responsive enthusiasm&mdash;when Lucy came demurely in, a proper
      little autumn figure in green and brown.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her cheeks were flushed, and her dark eyes were bright indeed; evidences,
      as George supposed, of the excitement incidental to the perfectly gorgeous
      time just concluded; though Janie and Mary Sharon both thought they were
      the effect of Lucy&rsquo;s having seen George&rsquo;s runabout in front of the house
      as she came in. George took on colour, himself, as, he rose and nodded
      indifferently; and the hot suffusion to which he became subject extended
      its area to include his neck and ears. Nothing could have made him much
      more indignant than his consciousness of these symptoms of the icy
      indifference which it was his purpose not only to show but to feel.
    </p>
    <p>
      She kissed her cousins, gave George her hand, said &ldquo;How d&rsquo;you do,&rdquo; and
      took a chair beside Janie with a composure which augmented George&rsquo;s
      indignation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How d&rsquo;you do,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I trust that ah&mdash;I trust&mdash;I do trust&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stopped, for it seemed to him that the word &ldquo;trust&rdquo; sounded idiotic.
      Then, to cover his awkwardness, he coughed, and even to his own rosy ears
      his cough was ostentatiously a false one. Whereupon, seeking to be
      plausible, he coughed again, and instantly hated himself: the sound he
      made was an atrocity. Meanwhile, Lucy sat silent, and the two Sharon girls
      leaned forward, staring at him with strained eyes, their lips tightly
      compressed; and both were but too easily diagnosed as subject to an
      agitation which threatened their self-control. He began again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I er&mdash;I hope you have had a&mdash;a pleasant time. I er&mdash;I hope
      you are well. I hope you are extremely&mdash;I hope extremely&mdash;extremely&mdash;&rdquo;
       And again he stopped in the midst of his floundering, not knowing how to
      progress beyond &ldquo;extremely,&rdquo; and unable to understand why the infernal
      word kept getting into his mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon?&rdquo; Lucy said.
    </p>
    <p>
      George was never more furious; he felt that he was &ldquo;making a spectacle of
      himself&rdquo;; and no young gentleman in the world was more loath than George
      Amberson Minafer to look a figure of fun. And while he stood there,
      undeniably such a figure, with Janie and Mary Sharon threatening to burst
      at any moment, if laughter were longer denied them. Lucy sat looking at
      him with her eyebrows delicately lifted in casual, polite inquiry. Her own
      complete composure was what most galled him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing of the slightest importance!&rdquo; he managed to say. &ldquo;I was just
      leaving. Good afternoon!&rdquo; And with long strides he reached the door and
      hastened through the hall; but before he closed the front door he heard
      from Janie and Mary Sharon the outburst of wild, irrepressible emotion
      which his performance had inspired.
    </p>
    <p>
      He drove home in a tumultuous mood, and almost ran down two ladies who
      were engaged in absorbing conversation at a crossing. They were his Aunt
      Fanny and the stout Mrs. Johnson; a jerk of the reins at the last instant
      saved them by a few inches; but their conversation was so interesting that
      they were unaware of their danger, and did not notice the runabout, nor
      how close it came to them. George was so furious with himself and with the
      girl whose unexpected coming into a room could make him look such a fool,
      that it might have soothed him a little if he had actually run over the
      two absorbed ladies without injuring them beyond repair. At least, he said
      to himself that he wished he had; it might have taken his mind off of
      himself for a few minutes. For, in truth, to be ridiculous (and know it)
      was one of several things that George was unable to endure. He was savage.
    </p>
    <p>
      He drove into the Major&rsquo;s stable too fast, the sagacious Pendennis saving
      himself from going through a partition by a swerve which splintered a
      shaft of the runabout and almost threw the driver to the floor. George
      swore, and then swore again at the fat old darkey, Tom, for giggling at
      his swearing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hoopee!&rdquo; said old Tom. &ldquo;Mus&rsquo; been some white lady use Mist&rsquo; Jawge mighty
      bad! White lady say, &lsquo;No, suh, I ain&rsquo; go&rsquo;n out ridin&rsquo; &lsquo;ith Mist&rsquo; Jawge no
      mo&rsquo;!&rsquo; Mist&rsquo; Jawge drive in. &lsquo;Dam de dam worl&rsquo;! Dam de dam hoss! Dam de dam
      nigga&rsquo;! Dam de dam dam!&rsquo; Hoopee!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;ll do!&rdquo; George said sternly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yessuh!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George strode from the stable, crossed the Major&rsquo;s back yard, then passed
      behind the new houses, on his way home. These structures were now
      approaching completion, but still in a state of rawness hideous to George&mdash;though,
      for that matter, they were never to be anything except hideous to him.
      Behind them, stray planks, bricks, refuse of plaster and lath, shingles,
      straw, empty barrels, strips of twisted tin and broken tiles were strewn
      everywhere over the dried and pitted gray mud where once the suave lawn
      had lain like a green lake around those stately islands, the two Amberson
      houses. And George&rsquo;s state of mind was not improved by his present view of
      this repulsive area, nor by his sensations when he kicked an uptilted
      shingle only to discover that what uptilted it was a brickbat on the other
      side of it. After that, the whole world seemed to be one solid conspiracy
      of malevolence.
    </p>
    <p>
      In this temper he emerged from behind the house nearest to his own, and,
      glancing toward the street, saw his mother standing with Eugene Morgan
      upon the cement path that led to the front gate. She was bareheaded, and
      Eugene held his hat and stick in his hand; evidently he had been calling
      upon her, and she had come from the house with him, continuing their
      conversation and delaying their parting.
    </p>
    <p>
      They had paused in their slow walk from the front door to the gate, yet
      still stood side by side, their shoulders almost touching, as though
      neither Isabel nor Eugene quite realized that their feet had ceased to
      bear them forward; and they were not looking at each other, but at some
      indefinite point before them, as people do who consider together
      thoughtfully and in harmony. The conversation was evidently serious; his
      head was bent, and Isabel&rsquo;s lifted left hand rested against her cheek; but
      all the significances of their thoughtful attitude denoted
      companionableness and a shared understanding. Yet, a stranger, passing,
      would not have thought them married: somewhere about Eugene, not quite to
      be located, there was a romantic gravity; and Isabel, tall and graceful,
      with high colour and absorbed eyes, was visibly no wife walking down to
      the gate with her husband.
    </p>
    <p>
      George stared at them. A hot dislike struck him at the sight of Eugene;
      and a vague revulsion, like a strange, unpleasant taste in his mouth, came
      over him as he looked at his mother: her manner was eloquent of so much
      thought about her companion and of such reliance upon him. And the picture
      the two thus made was a vivid one indeed, to George, whose angry eyes, for
      some reason, fixed themselves most intently upon Isabel&rsquo;s lifted hand,
      upon the white ruffle at her wrist, bordering the graceful black sleeve,
      and upon the little indentations in her cheek where the tips of her
      fingers rested. She should not have worn white at her wrist, or at the
      throat either, George felt; and then, strangely, his resentment
      concentrated upon those tiny indentations at the tips of her fingers&mdash;actual
      changes, however slight and fleeting, in his mother&rsquo;s face, made because
      of Mr. Eugene Morgan. For the moment, it seemed to George that Morgan
      might have claimed the ownership of a face that changed for him.. It was
      as if he owned Isabel.
    </p>
    <p>
      The two began to walk on toward the gate, where they stopped again,
      turning to face each other, and Isabel&rsquo;s glance, passing Eugene, fell upon
      George. Instantly she smiled and waved her hand to him; while Eugene
      turned and nodded; but George, standing as in some rigid trance, and
      staring straight at them, gave these signals of greeting no sign of
      recognition whatever. Upon this, Isabel called to him, waving her hand
      again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Georgie!&rdquo; she called, laughing. &ldquo;Wake up, dear! Georgie, hello!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George turned away as if he had neither seen nor heard, and stalked into
      the house by the side door.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0021" id="link2HCH0021">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
