<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 8</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
    <p>
      When George regained some measure of his presence of mind, Miss Lucy
      Morgan&rsquo;s cheek, snowy and cold, was pressing his nose slightly to one
      side; his right arm was firmly about her neck; and a monstrous amount of
      her fur boa seemed to mingle with an equally unplausible quantity of snow
      in his mouth. He was confused, but conscious of no objection to any of
      these juxtapositions. She was apparently uninjured, for she sat up,
      hatless, her hair down, and said mildly:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good heavens!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Though her father had been under his machine when they passed, he was the
      first to reach them. He threw himself on his knees beside his daughter,
      but found her already laughing, and was reassured. &ldquo;They&rsquo;re all right,&rdquo; he
      called to Isabel, who was running toward them, ahead of her brother and
      Fanny Minafer. &ldquo;This snowbank&rsquo;s a feather bed&mdash;nothing the matter
      with them at all. Don&rsquo;t look so pale!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Georgie!&rdquo; she gasped. &ldquo;Georgie!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Georgie was on his feet, snow all over him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t make a fuss, mother! Nothing&rsquo;s the matter. That darned silly horse&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Sudden tears stood in Isabel&rsquo;s eyes. &ldquo;To see you down underneath&mdash;dragging&mdash;oh&mdash;&rdquo;
       Then with shaking hands she began to brush the snow from him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me alone,&rdquo; he protested. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll ruin your gloves. You&rsquo;re getting
      snow all over you, and&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no!&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll catch cold; you mustn&rsquo;t catch cold!&rdquo; And she
      continued to brush him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Amberson had brought Lucy&rsquo;s hat; Miss Fanny acted as lady&rsquo;s-maid; and both
      victims of the accident were presently restored to about their usual
      appearance and condition of apparel. In fact, encouraged by the two older
      gentlemen, the entire party, with one exception, decided that the episode
      was after all a merry one, and began to laugh about it. But George was
      glummer than the December twilight now swiftly closing in.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That darned horse!&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t bother about Pendennis, Georgie,&rdquo; said his uncle. &ldquo;You can
      send a man out for what&rsquo;s left of the cutter tomorrow, and Pendennis will
      gallop straight home to his stable: he&rsquo;ll be there a long while before we
      will, because all we&rsquo;ve got to depend on to get us home is Gene Morgan&rsquo;s
      broken-down chafing-dish yonder.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They were approaching the machine as he spoke, and his friend, again
      underneath it, heard him. He emerged, smiling. &ldquo;She&rsquo;ll go,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All aboard!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He offered his hand to Isabel. She was smiling but still pale, and her
      eyes, in spite of the smile, kept upon George in a shocked anxiety. Miss
      Fanny had already mounted to the rear seat, and George, after helping Lucy
      Morgan to climb up beside his aunt, was following. Isabel saw that his
      shoes were light things of patent leather, and that snow was clinging to
      them. She made a little rush toward him, and, as one of his feet rested on
      the iron step of the machine, in mounting, she began to clean the snow
      from his shoe with her almost aerial lace handkerchief. &ldquo;You mustn&rsquo;t catch
      cold!&rdquo; she cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stop that!&rdquo; George shouted, and furiously withdrew his foot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then stamp the snow off,&rdquo; she begged. &ldquo;You mustn&rsquo;t ride with wet feet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They&rsquo;re not!&rdquo; George roared, thoroughly outraged. &ldquo;For heaven&rsquo;s sake get
      in! You&rsquo;re standing in the snow yourself. Get in!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel consented, turning to Morgan, whose habitual expression of
      apprehensiveness was somewhat accentuated. He climbed up after her, George
      Amberson having gone to the other side. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re the same Isabel I used to
      know!&rdquo; he said in a low voice. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a divinely ridiculous woman.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Am I, Eugene?&rdquo; she said, not displeased. &ldquo;&lsquo;Divinely&rsquo; and &lsquo;ridiculous&rsquo;
      just counterbalance each other, don&rsquo;t they? Plus one and minus one equal
      nothing; so you mean I&rsquo;m nothing in particular?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he answered, tugging at a lever. &ldquo;That doesn&rsquo;t seem to be precisely
      what I meant. There!&rdquo; This exclamation referred to the subterranean
      machinery, for dismaying sounds came from beneath the floor, and the
      vehicle plunged, then rolled noisily forward.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Behold!&rdquo; George Amberson exclaimed. &ldquo;She does move! It must be another
      accident.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Accident?&rdquo; Morgan shouted over the din. &ldquo;No! She breathes, she stirs; she
      seems to feel a thrill of life along her keel!&rdquo; And he began to sing &ldquo;The
      Star Spangled Banner.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amberson joined him lustily, and sang on when Morgan stopped. The twilight
      sky cleared, discovering a round moon already risen; and the musical
      congressman hailed this bright presence with the complete text and melody
      of &ldquo;The Danube River.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His nephew, behind, was gloomy. He had overheard his mother&rsquo;s conversation
      with the inventor: it seemed curious to him that this Morgan, of whom he
      had never heard until last night, should be using the name &ldquo;Isabel&rdquo; so
      easily; and George felt that it was not just the thing for his mother to
      call Morgan &ldquo;Eugene;&rdquo; the resentment of the previous night came upon
      George again. Meanwhile, his mother and Morgan continued their talk; but
      he could no longer hear what they said; the noise of the car and his
      uncle&rsquo;s songful mood prevented. He marked how animated Isabel seemed; it
      was not strange to see his mother so gay, but it was strange that a man
      not of the family should be the cause of her gaiety. And George sat
      frowning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Fanny Minafer had begun to talk to Lucy. &ldquo;Your father wanted to prove that
      his horseless carriage would run, even in the snow,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;It really
      does, too.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s so interesting! He&rsquo;s been telling us how he&rsquo;s going to change it. He
      says he&rsquo;s going to have wheels all made of rubber and blown up with air. I
      don&rsquo;t understand what he means at all; I should think they&rsquo;d explode&mdash;but
      Eugene seems to be very confident. He always was confident, though. It
      seems so like old times to hear him talk!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She became thoughtful, and Lucy turned to George. &ldquo;You tried to swing
      underneath me and break the fall for me when we went over,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I
      knew you were doing that, and&mdash;it was nice of you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wasn&rsquo;t any fall to speak of,&rdquo; he returned brusquely. &ldquo;Couldn&rsquo;t have hurt
      either of us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Still it was friendly of you&mdash;and awfully quick, too. I&rsquo;ll not&mdash;I&rsquo;ll
      not forget it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her voice had a sound of genuineness, very pleasant; and George began to
      forget his annoyance with her father. This annoyance of his had not been
      alleviated by the circumstance that neither of the seats of the old
      sewing-machine was designed for three people, but when his neighbour spoke
      thus gratefully, he no longer minded the crowding&mdash;in fact, it
      pleased him so much that he began to wish the old sewing-machine would go
      even slower. And she had spoken no word of blame for his letting that
      darned horse get the cutter into the ditch. George presently addressed her
      hurriedly, almost tremulously, speaking close to her ear:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I forgot to tell you something: you&rsquo;re pretty nice! I thought so the
      first second I saw you last night. I&rsquo;ll come for you tonight and take you
      to the Assembly at the Amberson Hotel. You&rsquo;re going, aren&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, but I&rsquo;m going with papa and the Sharons I&rsquo;ll see you there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Looks to me as if you were awfully conventional,&rdquo; George grumbled; and
      his disappointment was deeper than he was willing to let her see&mdash;though
      she probably did see. &ldquo;Well, we&rsquo;ll dance the cotillion together, anyhow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m afraid not. I promised Mr. Kinney.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What!&rdquo; George&rsquo;s tone was shocked, as at incredible news. &ldquo;Well, you could
      break that engagement, I guess, if you wanted to! Girls always can get out
      of things when they want to. Won&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think so.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Because I promised him. Several days ago.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George gulped, and lowered his pride, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t&mdash;oh, look here! I only
      want to go to that thing tonight to get to see something of you; and if
      you don&rsquo;t dance the cotillion with me, how can I? I&rsquo;ll only be here two
      weeks, and the others have got all the rest of your visit to see you.
      Won&rsquo;t you do it, please?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I couldn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;See here!&rdquo; said the stricken George. &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re going to decline to dance
      that cotillion with me simply because you&rsquo;ve promised a&mdash;a&mdash;a
      miserable red-headed outsider like Fred Kinney, why we might as well
      quit!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quit what?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You know perfectly well what I mean,&rdquo; he said huskily.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, you ought to!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I don&rsquo;t at all!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George, thoroughly hurt, and not a little embittered, expressed himself in
      a short outburst of laughter: &ldquo;Well, I ought to have seen it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Seen what?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That you might turn out to be a girl who&rsquo;d like a fellow of the
      red-headed Kinney sort. I ought to have seen it from the first!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lucy bore her disgrace lightly. &ldquo;Oh, dancing a cotillion with a person
      doesn&rsquo;t mean that you like him&mdash;but I don&rsquo;t see anything in
      particular the matter with Mr. Kinney. What is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t see anything the matter with him for yourself,&rdquo; George
      responded, icily, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think pointing it out would help you. You
      probably wouldn&rsquo;t understand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You might try,&rdquo; she suggested. &ldquo;Of course I&rsquo;m a stranger here, and if
      people have done anything wrong or have something unpleasant about them, I
      wouldn&rsquo;t have any way of knowing it, just at first. If poor Mr. Kinney&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I prefer not to discuss it,&rdquo; said George curtly. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s an enemy of mine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I prefer not to discuss it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, but&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I prefer not to discuss it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well.&rdquo; She began to hum the air of the song which Mr. George
      Amberson was now discoursing, &ldquo;O moon of my delight that knows no wane&rdquo;&mdash;and
      there was no further conversation on the back seat.
    </p>
    <p>
      They had entered Amberson Addition, and the moon of Mr. Amberson&rsquo;s delight
      was overlaid by a slender Gothic filagree; the branches that sprang from
      the shade trees lining the street. Through the windows of many of the
      houses rosy lights were flickering; and silver tinsel and evergreen
      wreaths and brilliant little glass globes of silver and wine colour could
      be seen, and glimpses were caught of Christmas trees, with people decking
      them by firelight&mdash;reminders that this was Christmas Eve. The
      ride-stealers had disappeared from the highway, though now and then, over
      the gasping and howling of the horseless carriage, there came a shrill
      jeer from some young passer-by upon the sidewalk:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mister, fer heaven&rsquo;s sake go an&rsquo; git a hoss! Git a hoss! Git a hoss!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The contrivance stopped with a heart-shaking jerk before Isabel&rsquo;s house.
      The gentlemen jumped down, helping Isabel and Fanny to descend; there were
      friendly leavetakings&mdash;and one that was not precisely friendly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s &lsquo;au revoir,&rsquo; till to-night, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo; Lucy asked, laughing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good afternoon!&rdquo; said George, and he did not wait, as his relatives did,
      to see the old sewing machine start briskly down the street, toward the
      Sharons&rsquo;; its lighter load consisting now of only Mr. Morgan and his
      daughter. George went into the house at once.
    </p>
    <p>
      He found his father reading the evening paper in the library. &ldquo;Where are
      your mother and your Aunt Fanny?&rdquo; Mr. Minafer inquired, not looking up.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They&rsquo;re coming,&rdquo; said his son; and, casting himself heavily into a chair,
      stared at the fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      His prediction was verified a few moments later; the two ladies came in
      cheerfully, unfastening their fur cloaks. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all right, Georgie,&rdquo; said
      Isabel. &ldquo;Your Uncle George called to us that Pendennis got home safely.
      Put your shoes close to the fire, dear, or else go and change them.&rdquo; She
      went to her husband and patted him lightly on the shoulder, an action
      which George watched with sombre moodiness. &ldquo;You might dress before long,&rdquo;
       she suggested. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re all going to the Assembly, after dinner, aren&rsquo;t we?
      Brother George said he&rsquo;d go with us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look here,&rdquo; said George abruptly. &ldquo;How about this man Morgan and his old
      sewing-machine? Doesn&rsquo;t he want to get grandfather to put money into it?
      Isn&rsquo;t he trying to work Uncle George for that? Isn&rsquo;t that what he&rsquo;s up
      to?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was Miss Fanny who responded. &ldquo;You little silly!&rdquo; she cried, with
      surprising sharpness. &ldquo;What on earth are you talking about? Eugene
      Morgan&rsquo;s perfectly able to finance his own inventions these days.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll bet he borrows money of Uncle George,&rdquo; the nephew insisted.
    </p>
    <p>
      Isabel looked at him in grave perplexity. &ldquo;Why do you say such a thing,
      George?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He strikes me as that sort of man,&rdquo; he answered doggedly. &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t he,
      father?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Minafer set down his paper for the moment. &ldquo;He was a fairly wild young
      fellow twenty years ago,&rdquo; he said, glancing at his wife absently. &ldquo;He was
      like you in one thing, Georgie; he spent too much money&mdash;only he
      didn&rsquo;t have any mother to get money out of a grandfather for him, so he
      was usually in debt. But I believe I&rsquo;ve heard he&rsquo;s done fairly well of
      late years. No, I can&rsquo;t say I think he&rsquo;s a swindler, and I doubt if he
      needs anybody else&rsquo;s money to back his horseless carriage.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, what&rsquo;s he brought the old thing here for, then? People that own
      elephants don&rsquo;t take them elephants around with &lsquo;em when they go visiting.
      What&rsquo;s he got it here for?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; said Mr. Minafer, resuming his paper. &ldquo;You might
      ask him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel laughed, and patted her husband&rsquo;s shoulder again. &ldquo;Aren&rsquo;t you going
      to dress? Aren&rsquo;t we all going to the dance?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He groaned faintly. &ldquo;Aren&rsquo;t your brother and Georgie escorts enough for
      you and Fanny?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wouldn&rsquo;t you enjoy it at all?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You know I don&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Isabel let her hand remain upon his shoulder a moment longer; she stood
      behind him, looking into the fire, and George, watching her broodingly,
      thought there was more colour in her face than the reflection of the
      flames accounted for. &ldquo;Well, then,&rdquo; she said indulgently, &ldquo;stay at home
      and be happy. We won&rsquo;t urge you if you&rsquo;d really rather not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I really wouldn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; he said contentedly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Half an hour later, George was passing through the upper hall, in a
      bath-robe stage of preparation for the evening&rsquo;s&rsquo; gaieties, when he
      encountered his Aunt Fanny. He stopped her. &ldquo;Look here!&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What in the world is the matter with you?&rdquo; she demanded, regarding him
      with little amiability. &ldquo;You look as if you were rehearsing for a villain
      in a play. Do change your expression!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His expression gave no sign of yielding to the request; on the contrary,
      its somberness deepened. &ldquo;I suppose you don&rsquo;t know why father doesn&rsquo;t want
      to go tonight,&rdquo; he said solemnly. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re his only sister, and yet you
      don&rsquo;t know!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He never wants to go anywhere that I ever heard of,&rdquo; said Fanny. &ldquo;What is
      the matter with you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He doesn&rsquo;t want to go because he doesn&rsquo;t like this man Morgan.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good gracious!&rdquo; Fanny cried impatiently. &ldquo;Eugene Morgan isn&rsquo;t in your
      father&rsquo;s thoughts at all, one way or the other. Why should he be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George hesitated. &ldquo;Well&mdash;it strikes me&mdash;Look here, what makes
      you and&mdash;and everybody&mdash;so excited over him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excited!&rdquo; she jeered. &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t people be glad to see an old friend without
      silly children like you having to make a to-do about it? I&rsquo;ve just been in
      your mother&rsquo;s room suggesting that she might give a little dinner for them&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For who?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For whom, Georgie! For Mr. Morgan and his daughter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look here!&rdquo; George said quickly. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t do that! Mother mustn&rsquo;t do that.
      It wouldn&rsquo;t look well.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wouldn&rsquo;t look well!&rdquo; Fanny mocked him; and her suppressed vehemence
      betrayed a surprising acerbity. &ldquo;See here, Georgie Minafer, I suggest that
      you just march straight on into your room and finish your dressing!
      Sometimes you say things that show you have a pretty mean little mind!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George was so astounded by this outburst that his indignation was delayed
      by his curiosity. &ldquo;Why, what upsets you this way?&rdquo; he inquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know what you mean,&rdquo; she said, her voice still lowered, but not
      decreasing in sharpness. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re trying to insinuate that I&rsquo;d get your
      mother to invite Eugene Morgan here on my account because he&rsquo;s a widower!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am?&rdquo; George gasped, nonplussed. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m trying to insinuate that you&rsquo;re
      setting your cap at him and getting mother to help you? Is that what you
      mean?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Beyond a doubt that was what Miss Fanny meant. She gave him a white-hot
      look. &ldquo;You attend to your own affairs!&rdquo; she whispered fiercely, and swept
      away.
    </p>
    <p>
      George, dumfounded, returned to his room for meditation.
    </p>
    <p>
      He had lived for years in the same house with his Aunt Fanny, and it now
      appeared that during all those years he had been thus intimately
      associating with a total stranger. Never before had he met the passionate
      lady with whom he had just held a conversation in the hall. So she wanted
      to get married! And wanted George&rsquo;s mother to help her with this
      horseless-carriage widower!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, I will be shot!&rdquo; he muttered aloud. &ldquo;I will&mdash;I certainly will
      be shot!&rdquo; And he began&rsquo; to laugh. &ldquo;Lord &lsquo;lmighty!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But presently, at the thought of the horseless-carriage widower&rsquo;s
      daughter, his grimness returned, and he resolved upon a line of conduct
      for the evening. He would nod to her carelessly when he first saw her;
      and, after that, he would notice her no more: he would not dance with her;
      he would not favour her in the cotillion&mdash;he would not go near her!
    </p>
    <p>
      He descended to dinner upon the third urgent summons of a coloured butler,
      having spent two hours dressing&mdash;and rehearsing.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0009" id="link2HCH0009">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
