<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 27</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVII</h2>
    <p>
      Having finished some errands downtown, the next afternoon, George Amberson
      Minafer was walking up National Avenue on his homeward way when he saw in
      the distance, coming toward him, upon the same side of the street, the
      figure of a young lady&mdash;a figure just under the middle height, comely
      indeed, and to be mistaken for none other in the world&mdash;even at two
      hundred yards. To his sharp discomfiture his heart immediately forced upon
      him the consciousness of its acceleration; a sudden warmth about his neck
      made him aware that he had turned red, and then, departing, left him pale.
      For a panicky moment he thought of facing about in actual flight; he had
      little doubt that Lucy would meet him with no token of recognition, and
      all at once this probability struck him as unendurable. And if she did not
      speak, was it the proper part of chivalry to lift his hat and take the cut
      bareheaded? Or should the finer gentleman acquiesce in the lady&rsquo;s desire
      for no further acquaintance, and pass her with stony mien and eyes
      constrained forward? George was a young man badly flustered.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the girl approaching him was unaware of his trepidation, being perhaps
      somewhat preoccupied with her own. She saw only that he was pale, and that
      his eyes were darkly circled. But here he was advantaged with her, for the
      finest touch to his good looks was given by this toning down; neither
      pallor nor dark circles detracting from them, but rather adding to them a
      melancholy favour of distinction. George had retained his mourning, a
      tribute completed down to the final details of black gloves and a polished
      ebony cane (which he would have been pained to name otherwise than as a
      &ldquo;walking-stick&rdquo;) and in the aura of this sombre elegance his straight
      figure and drawn face were not without a tristful and appealing dignity.
    </p>
    <p>
      In everything outward he was cause enough for a girl&rsquo;s cheek to flush, her
      heart to beat faster, and her eyes to warm with the soft light that came
      into Lucy&rsquo;s now, whether she would or no. If his spirit had been what his
      looks proclaimed it, she would have rejoiced to let the light glow forth
      which now shone in spite of her. For a long time, thinking of that spirit
      of his, and what she felt it should be, she had a persistent sense: &ldquo;It
      must be there!&rdquo; but she had determined to believe this folly no longer.
      Nevertheless, when she met him at the Sharons&rsquo;, she had been far less calm
      than she seemed.
    </p>
    <p>
      People speaking casually of Lucy were apt to define her as &ldquo;a little
      beauty,&rdquo; a definition short of the mark. She was &ldquo;a little beauty,&rdquo; but an
      independent, masterful, sell-reliant little American, of whom her father&rsquo;s
      earlier gipsyings and her own sturdiness had made a woman ever since she
      was fifteen. But though she was the mistress of her own ways and no slave
      to any lamp save that of her own conscience, she had a weakness: she had
      fallen in love with George Amberson Minafer at first sight, and no matter
      how she disciplined herself, she had never been able to climb out. The
      thing had happened to her; that was all. George had looked just the way
      she had always wanted someone to look&mdash;the riskiest of all the
      moonshine ambushes wherein tricky romance snares credulous young love. But
      what was fatal to Lucy was that this thing having happened to her, she
      could not change it. No matter what she discovered in George&rsquo;s nature she
      was unable to take away what she had given him; and though she could think
      differently about him, she could not feel differently about him, for she
      was one of those too faithful victims of glamour. When she managed to keep
      the picture of George away from her mind&rsquo;s eye, she did well enough; but
      when she let him become visible, she could not choose but love what she
      disdained. She was a little angel who had fallen in love with high-handed
      Lucifer; quite an experience, and not apt to be soon succeeded by any
      falling in love with a tamer party&mdash;and the unhappy truth was that
      George did make better men seem tame. But though she was a victim, she was
      a heroic one, anything but helpless.
    </p>
    <p>
      As they drew nearer, George tried to prepare himself to meet her with some
      remnants of aplomb. He decided that he would keep on looking straight
      ahead, and lift his hand toward his hat at the very last moment when it
      would be possible for her to see him out of the corner of her eye: then
      when she thought it over later, she would not be sure whether he had
      saluted her or merely rubbed his forehead. And there was the added benefit
      that any third person who might chance to look from a window, or from a
      passing carriage, would not think that he was receiving a snub, because he
      did not intend to lift his hat, but, timing the gesture properly, would in
      fact actually rub his forehead. These were the hasty plans which occupied
      his thoughts until he was within about fifty feet of her&mdash;when he
      ceased to have either plans or thoughts, he had kept his eyes from looking
      full at her until then, and as he saw her, thus close at hand, and coming
      nearer, a regret that was dumfounding took possession of him. For the
      first time he had the sense of having lost something of overwhelming
      importance.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lucy did not keep to the right, but came straight to meet him, smiling,
      and with her hand offered to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why&mdash;you&mdash;&rdquo; he stammered, as he took it. &ldquo;Haven&rsquo;t you&mdash;&rdquo;
       What he meant to say was, &ldquo;Haven&rsquo;t you heard?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Haven&rsquo;t I what?&rdquo; she asked; and he saw that Eugene had not yet told her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing!&rdquo; he gasped. &ldquo;May I&mdash;may I turn and walk with you a little
      way?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, indeed!&rdquo; she said cordially.
    </p>
    <p>
      He would not have altered what had been done: he was satisfied with all
      that&mdash;satisfied that it was right, and that his own course was right.
      But he began to perceive a striking inaccuracy in some remarks he had made
      to his mother. Now when he had put matters in such shape that even by the
      relinquishment of his &ldquo;ideals of life&rdquo; he could not have Lucy, knew that
      he could never have her, and knew that when Eugene told her the history of
      yesterday he could not have a glance or word even friendly from her&mdash;now
      when he must in good truth &ldquo;give up all idea of Lucy,&rdquo; he was amazed that
      he could have used such words as &ldquo;no particular sacrifice,&rdquo; and believed
      them when he said them! She had looked never in his life so bewitchingly
      pretty as she did today; and as he walked beside her he was sure that she
      was the most exquisite thing in the world.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lucy,&rdquo; he said huskily, &ldquo;I want to tell you something. Something that
      matters.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hope it&rsquo;s a lively something then,&rdquo; she said; and laughed. &ldquo;Papa&rsquo;s been
      so glum to-day he&rsquo;s scarcely spoken to me. Your Uncle George Amberson came
      to see him an hour ago and they shut themselves up in the library, and
      your uncle looked as glum as papa. I&rsquo;d be glad if you&rsquo;ll tell me a funny
      story, George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, it may seem one to you,&rdquo; he said bitterly, &ldquo;Just to begin with:
      when you went away you didn&rsquo;t let me know; not even a word&mdash;not a
      line&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her manner persisted in being inconsequent. &ldquo;Why, no,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I just
      trotted off for some visits.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, at least you might have&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, no,&rdquo; she said again briskly. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you remember, George? We&rsquo;d had a
      grand quarrel, and didn&rsquo;t speak to each other all the way home from a
      long, long drive! So, as we couldn&rsquo;t play together like good children, of
      course it was plain that we oughtn&rsquo;t to play at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Play!&rdquo; he cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. What I mean is that we&rsquo;d come to the point where it was time to quit
      playing&mdash;well, what we were playing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At being lovers, you mean, don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Something like that,&rdquo; she said lightly. &ldquo;For us two, playing at being
      lovers was just the same as playing at cross-purposes. I had all the
      purposes, and that gave you all the crossness: things weren&rsquo;t getting
      along at all. It was absurd!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, have it your own way,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It needn&rsquo;t have been absurd.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, it couldn&rsquo;t help but be!&rdquo; she informed him cheerfully. &ldquo;The way I am
      and the way you are, it couldn&rsquo;t ever be anything else. So what was the
      use?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; he sighed, and his sigh was abysmal. &ldquo;But what I wanted to
      tell you is this: when you went away, you didn&rsquo;t let me know and didn&rsquo;t
      care how or when I heard it, but I&rsquo;m not like that with you. This time,
      I&rsquo;m going away. That&rsquo;s what I wanted to tell you. I&rsquo;m going away tomorrow
      night&mdash;indefinitely.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She nodded sunnily. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s nice for you. I hope you&rsquo;ll have ever so jolly
      a time, George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t expect to have a particularly jolly time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, then,&rdquo; she laughed, &ldquo;if I were you I don&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;d go.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It seemed impossible to impress this distracting creature, to make her
      serious. &ldquo;Lucy,&rdquo; he said desperately, &ldquo;this is our last walk together.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Evidently!&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;if you&rsquo;re going away tomorrow night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lucy&mdash;this may be the last time I&rsquo;ll see you&mdash;ever&mdash;ever
      in my life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At that she looked at him quickly, across her shoulder, but she smiled as
      brightly as before, and with the same cordial inconsequence: &ldquo;Oh, I can
      hardly think that!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;And of course I&rsquo;d be awfully sorry to think
      it. You&rsquo;re not moving away, are you, to live?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And even if you were, of course you&rsquo;d be coming back to visit your
      relatives every now and then.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know when I&rsquo;m coming back. Mother and I are starting to-morrow
      night for a trip around the world.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this she did look thoughtful. &ldquo;Your mother is going with you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good heavens!&rdquo; he groaned. &ldquo;Lucy, doesn&rsquo;t it make any difference to you
      that I am going?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this her cordial smile instantly appeared again. &ldquo;Yes, of course,&rdquo; she
      said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure I&rsquo;ll miss you ever so much. Are you to be gone long?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stared at her wanly. &ldquo;I told you indefinitely,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve made no
      plans&mdash;at all&mdash;for coming back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That does sound like a long trip!&rdquo; she exclaimed admiringly. &ldquo;Do you plan
      to be travelling all the time, or will you stay in some one place the
      greater part of it? I think it would be lovely to&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lucy!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He halted; and she stopped with him. They had come to a corner at the edge
      of the &ldquo;business section&rdquo; of the city, and people were everywhere about
      them, brushing against them, sometimes, in passing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t stand this,&rdquo; George said, in a low voice. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just about ready
      to go in this drug-store here, and ask the clerk for something to keep me
      from dying in my tracks! It&rsquo;s quite a shock, you see, Lucy!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To find out certainly, at last, how deeply you&rsquo;ve cared for me! To see
      how much difference this makes to you! By Jove, I have mattered to you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her cordial smile was tempered now with good-nature. &ldquo;George!&rdquo; She laughed
      indulgently. &ldquo;Surely you don&rsquo;t want me to do pathos on a downtown corner!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You wouldn&rsquo;t &lsquo;do pathos&rsquo; anywhere!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well&mdash;don&rsquo;t you think pathos is generally rather fooling?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t stand this any longer,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t! Good-bye, Lucy!&rdquo; He
      took her hand. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s good-bye&mdash;I think it&rsquo;s good-bye for good, Lucy!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-bye! I do hope you&rsquo;ll have the most splendid trip.&rdquo; She gave his
      hand a cordial little grip, then released it lightly. &ldquo;Give my love to
      your mother. Good-bye!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He turned heavily away, and a moment later glanced back over his shoulder.
      She had not gone on, but stood watching him, that same casual, cordial
      smile on her face to the very last; and now, as he looked back, she
      emphasized her friendly unconcern by waving her small hand to him
      cheerily, though perhaps with the slightest hint of preoccupation, as if
      she had begun to think of the errand that brought her downtown.
    </p>
    <p>
      In his mind, George had already explained her to his own poignant
      dissatisfaction&mdash;some blond pup, probably, whom she had met during
      that &ldquo;perfectly gorgeous time!&rdquo; And he strode savagely onward, not looking
      back again.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Lucy remained where she was until he was out of sight. Then she went
      slowly into the drugstore which had struck George as a possible source of
      stimulant for himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Please let me have a few drops of aromatic spirits of ammonia in a glass
      of water,&rdquo; she said, with the utmost composure.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; said the impressionable clerk, who had been looking at her
      through the display window as she stood on the corner.
    </p>
    <p>
      But a moment later, as he turned from the shelves of glass jars against
      the wall, with the potion she had asked for in his hand, he uttered an
      exclamation: &ldquo;For goshes&rsquo; sake, Miss!&rdquo; And, describing this adventure to
      his fellow-boarders, that evening, &ldquo;Sagged pretty near to the counter, she
      was,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;If I hadn&rsquo;t been a bright, quick, ready-for-anything young
      fella she&rsquo;d &lsquo;a&rsquo; flummixed plum! I was watchin&rsquo; her out the window&mdash;talkin&rsquo;
      to some young s&rsquo;iety fella, and she was all right then. She was all right
      when she come in the store, too. Yes, sir; the prettiest girl that ever
      walked in our place and took one good look at me. I reckon it must be the
      truth what some you town wags say about my face!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0028" id="link2HCH0028">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
