<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 9</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IX</h2>
    <p>
      The Honourable George Amberson was a congressman who led cotillions&mdash;the
      sort of congressman an Amberson would be. He did it negligently, tonight,
      yet with infallible dexterity, now and then glancing humorously at the
      spectators, people of his own age. They were seated in a tropical grove at
      one end of the room whither they had retired at the beginning of the
      cotillion, which they surrendered entirely to the twenties and the late
      &lsquo;teens. And here, grouped with that stately pair, Sydney and Amelia
      Amberson, sat Isabel with Fanny, while Eugene Morgan appeared to bestow an
      amiable devotion impartially upon the three sisters-in-law. Fanny watched
      his face eagerly, laughing at everything he said; Amelia smiled blandly,
      but rather because of graciousness than because of interest; while Isabel,
      looking out at the dancers, rhythmically moved a great fan of blue ostrich
      feathers, listened to Eugene thoughtfully, yet all the while kept her
      shining eyes on Georgie.
    </p>
    <p>
      Georgie had carried out his rehearsed projects with precision, he had
      given Miss Morgan a nod studied into perfection during his lengthy toilet
      before dinner. &ldquo;Oh, yes, I do seem to remember that curious little
      outsider!&rdquo; this nod seemed to say. Thereafter, all cognizance of her
      evaporated: the curious little outsider was permitted no further existence
      worth the struggle. Nevertheless, she flashed in the corner of his eye too
      often. He was aware of her dancing demurely, and of her viciously
      flirtatious habit of never looking up at her partner, but keeping her eyes
      concealed beneath downcast lashes; and he had over-sufficient
      consciousness of her between the dances, though it was not possible to see
      her at these times, even if he had cared to look frankly in her direction&mdash;she
      was invisible in a thicket of young dresscoats. The black thicket moved as
      she moved and her location was hatefully apparent, even if he had not
      heard her voice laughing from the thicket. It was annoying how her voice,
      though never loud, pursued him. No matter how vociferous were other
      voices, all about, he seemed unable to prevent himself from constantly
      recognizing hers. It had a quaver in it, not pathetic&mdash;rather
      humorous than pathetic&mdash;a quality which annoyed him to the point of
      rage, because it was so difficult to get away from. She seemed to be
      having a &ldquo;wonderful time!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      An unbearable soreness accumulated in his chest: his dislike of the girl
      and her conduct increased until he thought of leaving this sickening
      Assembly and going home to bed. That would show her! But just then he
      heard her laughing, and decided that it wouldn&rsquo;t show her. So he remained.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the young couples seated themselves in chairs against the walls,
      round three sides of the room, for the cotillion, George joined a
      brazen-faced group clustering about the doorway&mdash;youths with no
      partners, yet eligible to be &ldquo;called out&rdquo; and favoured. He marked that his
      uncle placed the infernal Kinney and Miss Morgan, as the leading couple,
      in the first chairs at the head of the line upon the leader&rsquo;s right; and
      this disloyalty on the part of Uncle George was inexcusable, for in the
      family circle the nephew had often expressed his opinion of Fred Kinney.
      In his bitterness, George uttered a significant monosyllable.
    </p>
    <p>
      The music flourished; whereupon Mr. Kinney, Miss Morgan, and six of their
      neighbours rose and waltzed knowingly. Mr. Amberson&rsquo;s whistle blew;&rsquo; then
      the eight young people went to the favour-table and were given toys and
      trinkets wherewith to delight the new partners it was now their privilege
      to select. Around the walls, the seated non-participants in this ceremony
      looked rather conscious; some chattered, endeavouring not to appear
      expectant; some tried not to look wistful; and others were frankly solemn.
      It was a trying moment; and whoever secured a favour, this very first
      shot, might consider the portents happy for a successful evening.
    </p>
    <p>
      Holding their twinkling gewgaws in their hands, those about to bestow
      honour came toward the seated lines, where expressions became feverish.
      Two of the approaching girls seemed to wander, not finding a predetermined
      object in sight; and these two were Janie Sharon, and her cousin, Lucy. At
      this, George Amberson Minafer, conceiving that he had little to anticipate
      from either, turned a proud back upon the room and affected to converse
      with his friend, Mr. Charlie Johnson.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next moment a quick little figure intervened between the two. It was
      Lucy, gaily offering a silver sleighbell decked with white ribbon.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I almost couldn&rsquo;t find you!&rdquo; she cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      George stared, took her hand, led her forth in silence, danced with her.
      She seemed content not to talk; but as the whistle blew, signalling that
      this episode was concluded, and he conducted her to her seat, she lifted
      the little bell toward him. &ldquo;You haven&rsquo;t taken your favour. You&rsquo;re
      supposed to pin it on your coat,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you want it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you insist!&rdquo; said George stiffly. And he bowed her into her chair;
      then turned and walked away, dropping the sleighbell haughtily into his
      trousers&rsquo; pocket.
    </p>
    <p>
      The figure proceeded to its conclusion, and George was given other
      sleighbells, which he easily consented to wear upon his lapel; but, as the
      next figure &lsquo;began, he strolled with a bored air to the tropical grove,
      where sat his elders, and seated himself beside his Uncle Sydney. His
      mother leaned across Miss Fanny, raising her voice over the music to speak
      to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Georgie, nobody will be able to see you here. You&rsquo;ll not be favoured. You
      ought to be where you can dance.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t care to,&rdquo; he returned. &ldquo;Bore!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you ought&mdash;&rdquo; She stopped and laughed, waving her fan to direct
      his attention behind him. &ldquo;Look! Over your shoulder!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He turned, and discovered Miss Lucy Morgan in the act of offering him a
      purple toy balloon.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I found you!&rdquo; she laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      George was startled. &ldquo;Well&mdash;&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would you rather &lsquo;sit it out?&rsquo;&rdquo; Lucy asked quickly, as he did not move.
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t care to dance if you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said, rising. &ldquo;It would be better to dance.&rdquo; His tone was solemn,
      and solemnly he departed with her from the grove. Solemnly he danced with
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Four times, with not the slightest encouragement, she brought him a
      favour: &lsquo;four times in succession. When the fourth came, &ldquo;Look here!&rdquo; said
      George huskily. &ldquo;You going to keep this up all night? What do you mean by
      it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For an instant she seemed confused. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s what cotillions are for,
      aren&rsquo;t they?&rdquo; she murmured.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean: what they&rsquo;re for?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So that a girl can dance with a person she wants to?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George&rsquo;s huskiness increased. &ldquo;Well, do you mean you&mdash;you want to
      dance with me all the time&mdash;all evening?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, this much of it&mdash;evidently!&rdquo; she laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it because you thought I tried to keep you from getting hurt this
      afternoon when we upset?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She shook her head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Was it because you want to even things up for making me angry&mdash;I
      mean, for hurting my feelings on the way home?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With her eyes averted&mdash;for girls of nineteen can be as shy as boys,
      sometimes&mdash;she said, &ldquo;Well&mdash;you only got angry because I
      couldn&rsquo;t dance the cotillion with you. I&mdash;I didn&rsquo;t feel terribly hurt
      with you for getting angry about that!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Was there any other reason? Did my telling you I liked you have anything
      to do with it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked up gently, and, as George met her eyes, something exquisitely
      touching, yet queerly delightful, gave him a catch in the throat. She
      looked instantly away, and, turning, ran out from the palm grove, where
      they stood, to the dancing-floor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come on!&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s dance!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He followed her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;See here&mdash;I&mdash;I&mdash;&rdquo; he stammered. &ldquo;You mean&mdash;Do you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no!&rdquo; she laughed. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s dance!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He put his arm about her almost tremulously, and they began to waltz. It
      was a happy dance for both of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Christmas day is the children&rsquo;s, but the holidays are youth&rsquo;s
      dancing-time. The holidays belong to the early twenties and the &lsquo;teens,
      home from school and college. These years possess the holidays for a
      little while, then possess them only in smiling, wistful memories of holly
      and twinkling lights and dance-music, and charming faces all aglow. It is
      the liveliest time in life, the happiest of the irresponsible times in
      life. Mothers echo its happiness&mdash;nothing is like a mother who has a
      son home from college, except another mother with a son home from college.
      Bloom does actually come upon these mothers; it is a visible thing; and
      they run like girls, walk like athletes, laugh like sycophants. Yet they
      give up their sons to the daughters of other mothers, and find it proud
      rapture enough to be allowed to sit and watch.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus Isabel watched George and Lucy dancing, as together they danced away
      the holidays of that year into the past.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They seem to get along better than they did at first, those two
      children,&rdquo; Fanny Minafer said sitting beside her at the Sharons&rsquo; dance, a
      week after the Assembly. &ldquo;They seemed to be always having little quarrels
      of some sort, at first. At least George did: he seemed to be continually
      pecking at that lovely, dainty, little Lucy, and being cross with her over
      nothing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pecking?&rdquo; Isabel laughed. &ldquo;What a word to use about Georgie! I think I
      never knew a more angelically amiable disposition in my life!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Fanny echoed her sister-in-law&rsquo;s laugh, but it was a rueful echo, and
      not sweet. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s amiable to you!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s all the side of him
      you ever happen to see. And why wouldn&rsquo;t he be amiable to anybody that
      simply fell down and worshipped him every minute of her life? Most of us
      would!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t he worth worshipping? Just look at him! Isn&rsquo;t he charming with
      Lucy! See how hard he ran to get it when she dropped her handkerchief back
      there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m not going to argue with you about George!&rdquo; said Miss Fanny. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
      fond enough of him, for that matter. He can be charming, and he&rsquo;s
      certainly stunning looking, if only&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let the &lsquo;if only&rsquo; go, dear,&rdquo; Isabel suggested good-naturedly. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s talk
      about that dinner you thought I should&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I?&rdquo; Miss Fanny interrupted quickly. &ldquo;Didn&rsquo;t you want to give it
      yourself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indeed, I did, my dear!&rdquo; said Isabel heartily. &ldquo;I only meant that unless
      you had proposed it, perhaps I wouldn&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But here Eugene came for her to dance, and she left the sentence
      uncompleted. Holiday dances can be happy for youth renewed as well as for
      youth in bud&mdash;and yet it was not with the air of a rival that Miss
      Fanny watched her brother&rsquo;s wife dancing with the widower. Miss Fanny&rsquo;s
      eyes narrowed a little, but only as if her mind engaged in a hopeful
      calculation. She looked pleased.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0010" id="link2HCH0010">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
</section></body></html>
